# Module 1: Getting Started with HDInsight

## Lab: Working with HDInsight

### Scenario

Now that you are familiar with the architecture and components of an Azure HDInsight cluster, your next task is to use scripts to create an HDInsight cluster and run MapReduce jobs. Your first MapReduce job will provide a word count showing the number of times each word is used in Leonardo da Vinci's notebooks. This example will utilize PowerShell's cluster submission to run a MapReduce Job on YARN.

In the second example, you will utilize YARN directly to solve a Sudoku puzzle. You'll notice a drastic speed difference in the time each of these jobs takes to run.

### Objectives

In this lab, you will:

-   Set up an HDInsight cluster using PowerShell scripts.

-   Run a MapReduce job.

-   Run a YARN job.

-   Delete an HDInsight cluster.

### Lab Setup

-   **Estimated Time**: 30 minutes

-   **Virtual machine**: 20775A-LON-DEV

-   **Username**: Admin

-   **Password**: Pa55w.rd

## Exercise 1: Provision an HDInsight cluster and run MapReduce jobs

### Scenario

In this lab, you will use scripts to provision an HDInsight cluster in your Azure account, run a MapReduce job, and run a YARN job.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create an HDInsight cluster and run a word count MapReduce job

2. Run a YARN job

3. Delete the resource group

#### Task 0: Prepare the environment

1.  Ensure that the **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, **20775A-LON-DEV** virtual machines are running, and then log on to **20775A-LON-DEV** as **Admin** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

2.  Use the Command script **Setup.cmd** in **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab01** to prepare the environment.

#### Task 1: Create an HDInsight cluster and run a word count MapReduce job

-   Use the PowerShell script **Create-and-Run-WC.ps1** in **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab01** to create a cluster and run the word count MapReduce example.

#### Task 2: Run a YARN job

1.  Using PuTTY, connect to the HDInsight cluster using SSH and authenticate using the username, **sshadmin**, and the password**Pa55w.rd**.

2.  View the unsolved Sudoku puzzle in the following location:
    ````
    /usr/hdp/<currentHadoopversion>/hadoop/src/hadoop-mapreduce-project/hadoop-mapreduce-examples/src/main/java/org/apache/hadoop/examples/dancing/puzzle1.dta
    ````
    > **Note**: The **\<currentHadoopversion\>** can be found by navigating to **/usr/hdp** and running a **ls** command.

3.  Solve a Sudoku puzzle using the **Hadoop-MapReduce-Examples.jar** class on the named Sudoku at this location:
    ````
    /usr/hdp/current/hadoop-mapreduce-client/hadoop-mapreduce-examples.jar
    ````

4.  Close PuTTY, and the Command Prompt.

#### Task 3: Delete the resource group

1.  Use the script **DeleteRG.ps1** in the **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab01** folder to delete the resource group with the HDInsight cluster that was just created.

2.  Close Windows PowerShell ISE.

**Results**: You'll have set up an HDInsight cluster and run two jobs on it.

---

©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
