# Module 10: Stream Analytics

## Lab: Implement Stream Analytics

### Exercise 1: Process streaming data with Stream Analytics

#### Task 0: Prepare the lab environment

Additionally, this module uses Scala code to demonstrate the various APIs of Kafka and HBase. Before starting this module, ensure that you have installed and configured IntelliJ IDEA and the Java SDK on the LON-DEV virtual machine, as follows:

1.  Ensure that the **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, and **20775A-LON-DEV** virtual machines are running, and then log on to **20775A-LON-DEV** as **Admin** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

2.  Start Internet Explorer, and browse to **https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/download/index.html#section=windows**.

3.  Under **Community**, click **Download**.

4.  In the message box, click **Run**.

5.  In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.

6.  In the **IntelliJ IDEA Community Edition Setup** wizard, on the **Welcome to the IntelliJ IDEA Community Edition Setup** page, click **Next**.

7.  On the **Choose Install Location** page, click **Next**.

8.  On the **Installation Options** page, select the **64-bit launcher** check box, and then click **Next**.

9.  On the **Choose Start Menu Folder** page, click **Install**.

10. On the **Completing IntelliJ IDEA Community Edition Setup** page, click **Finish**.

11. In Internet Explorer, browse to **https://www.scala-lang.org/download/**.

12. Under **Other resources**, click **scala-2.12.7.msi**.

13. In the message box, click **Run**.

14. In the **Scala Programming Language Distribution Setup** dialog box, on the welcome page, click **Next**.

15. On the **End-User License Agreement** page, click **I accept the terms in the License Agreement**, and then click **Next**.

16. On the **Custom Setup** page, click **Next**.

17. On the **Ready to install Scala Programming Language Distribution** page, click **Install**.

18. In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.

19. On the **Completed the Scala Programming Language Distribution Setup Wizard** page, click **Finish**.

20. Close Internet Explorer.

21. On the desktop, double-click **IntelliJ IDEA Community Edition**.

22. In the **Complete Installation** dialog box, click **Do not import settings**, and then click **OK**.

23. In the **JetBrains Privacy Policy** dialog box, scroll to the end of the text, select the **I confirm that I have read and accpet the terms of this User Agreement** check box, and then click **Continue**.

24. In the **Data Sharing** dialog box, click **Don't send**.

25. In the **Customize IntelliJ IDEA** wizard, on the **Set UI theme** page, click **Next: Default plugins**.

26. On the **Tune IDEA to your tasks** page, click **Next: Featured plugins**.

27. On the **Download featured plugins** page, in the **Scala** section, click **Install**, and then click **Start using IntelliJ IDEA**.

28. In the **Welcome to IntelliJ IDEA** dialog box, click **Create New Project**.

29. In the left-hand pane, click **Scala**, in the right-hand pane click **IDEA**, and then click **Next**.

30. Under the **JDK** drop-down list box, click **Download JDK**. This action will open a web browser (Microsoft Edge or Internet Explorer).

31. In the **Oracle** dialog box, click **AGREE AND PROCEED**.

32. In the web browser, in the **Java SE Downloads** section, click the **Java Download** image button.

33. In the **Java SE Development Kit** section, click **Accept License Agreement**, and then click the download link for the **Windows x64 EXE** version of the software.

34. In the web browser message box, click **Save**.

35. When the download has completed, in the web browser message box, click **Run**.

36. In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.

37. In the **Java SE Development Kit Setup** wizard, on the welcome page, click **Next**.

38. On the optional features page, click **Next**.

39. When the installation has finished, click **Close**.

40. Close the web browser and return to the **New Project** dialog box in IntelliJ IDEA.

41. In the **New Project** dialog box, next to the **JDK** drop-down list box, click **New**.

42. In the **Select Home Directory for JDK** dialog box, browse to **C:\\Program Files\\Java**, click **jdk-11.0.1**, and then click **OK**.

43. In the **New Project** dialog box, next to the **Scala SDK** drop-down list box, click **Create**.

44. In the **Select JAR's for the new Scala SDK** dialog box, click **OK**.

45. In the **New Project** dialog box, click **Finish**.

46. In the **Windows Security Alert** dialog box for the **OpenJDK Platform binary**, click **Allow access**.

47. In the **Windows Security Alert** dialog box for **IntelliJ IDEA**, click **Allow access**.

48. In the **Tip of the Day** dialog box, clear **Show tips on startup**, and then click **Close**.

49. On the **File** menu, click **Settings**.

50. In the **Settings** dialog box, click **Plugins**.

51. In the **Plugins** pane, on the **Installed** tab, clear the **Android Support** check box, and then click the **Marketplace** tab.

52. In the search box, type **Azure**, and then press Enter.

53. On the **Azure Toolkit for IntelliJ** page, click **Install**.

54. In the **Third-party Plugins Privacy Note** dialog box, click **Accept**.

55. In the **Settings** dialog box, click **OK**.

56. In the **IDE and Plugin Updates** dialog box, click **Postpone**.

57. Close IntelliJ IDEA.

58. In the **Confirm Exit** dialog box, click **Exit**.

#### Task 1: Provision event hub

1.  On the **20775A-LON-DEV** virtual machine, in Internet Explorer®, in the address bar, type **http://portal.azure.com** and sign in using the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure Learning Pass subscription.

2.  Click **+ Create a resource**, in the search box, type **Event Hubs**, and then press Enter.

3.  On the **Everything** blade, click **Event Hubs**, and then click **Create**.

4.  On the **Create Namespace** blade, enter the following details, and then click **Create**:

    -   **Name**: ehlab-\<*your initials*\>-20775A

    -   **Pricing tier**: Standard

    -   **Subscription**: Your subscription

    -   **Resource group (Create new)**: module10labrg

    -   **Location**: Select location closest to you

5.  Wait until you receive **Deployments succeeded** notification message with **Deployment to resource group 'module10labrg' was successful** text.

6.  In the left menu, click **All resources**, and then click **ehlab-\<*your initials*\>-20775A**.

7.  On the **ehlab-\<*your initials*\>-20775A** blade, click **+ Event Hub**.

8.  On the **Create Event Hub** blade, enter the following details, and then click **Create**:

    -   **Name**: eventhublab

    -   **Partition Count**: 2

    -   **Message Retention**: 1

    -   **Capture**: Off

9.  Wait until you receive **Event Hub Creation** notification message with **Successfully created Event Hub EventHubLab** text.

10. On the **ehlab-\<*your initials*\>-20775A** blade, under **Entities**, click **Event Hubs** and confirm that you can see **eventhublab** in the list of items with status **Active**.

11. On the **ehlab-\<*your initials*\>-20775A** blade, under **Settings**, click **Shared access policies**, and then click **RootManageSharedAccessKey**.

12. On the **SAS Policy: RootManageSharedAccessKey** blade, next to **Primary key**, click **Click to Copy** to copy value into the clipboard.

#### Task 2: Connect a sensor data application to the event hub

1.  Using File Explorer, navigate to the **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab10\\ContosoSensorData** folder, and then double-click **ContosoSensorData.exe**.

2.  In the console window, enter the following details:

    -   **Event Hub's Namespace**: ehlab-\<*your initials*\>-20775A

    -   **Event Hub's Name**: eventhublab

    -   **Shared Access Key**: \<paste the value copied to the clipboard in the previous task\>

    -   Press **2** to generate a continuous stream of data.

3.  Leave the application running for the rest of the lab. The selected event hub will be receiving messages from simulated sensors every 5 seconds.

#### Task 3: Provision a Stream Analytics job

1.  In the Azure Portal, click **+ Create a resource**, click **Analytics**, and then click **Stream Analytics job**.

2.  On the **New Stream Analytics job** blade, enter the following details, and then click **Create**:

    -   **Job name**: joblab-\<*your initials*\>-20775A

    -   **Subscription**: Your subscription

    -   **Resource group (Use existing)**: module10labrg

    -   **Location**: Leave default location selected for your resource group

3.  Wait until you receive **Deployments succeeded** notification message with **Deployment to resource group 'module10labrg' was successful** text.

4.  In the left menu, click **All resources**, and then click **joblab-\<*your initials*\>-20775A**.

5.  On the **joblab-\<*your initials*\>-20775A** blade, under **Job topology**, click **Inputs**.

6.  On the **Inputs** blade, click **+ Add stream input**, and then click **Event Hub**.

7.  On the **Event Hub** blade, enter the following details, and then click **Save**:

    -   **Input alias**: LabInput

    -   **Provide Event Hub settings manually**: Selected

    -   **Service bus namespace**: sb://ehlab-\<*your initials*\>-20775A.servicebus.windows.net

    -   **Event Hub name**: eventhublab

    -   **Event Hub policy name**: RootManageSharedAccessKey

    -   **Event Hub policy key**: \<paste the value copied to the clipboard in the task 1\>

8.  Wait until you receive **Successful connection test** notification message with **Connection to input 'LabInput' succeeded** text.

9.  In the left menu, click **+ Create a resource**, click **Storage**, and then click **Storage account - blob, file, table, queue**.

10. On the **Create storage account** blade, enter the following details, and then click **Review + create**:

    -   **Resource group**: module10labrg

    -   **Storage account**: \<*your initials*\>mod10labst

    -   **Location**: Same location selected for your resource group

    -   **Replication**: Locally-redundant storage (LRS)

11. On the **Create storage account** blade, click **Create**.

12. Wait until you receive **Deployment succeeded** notification message.

13. In the left menu, click **All resources**, and then click **joblab-\<*your initials*\>-20775A**.

14. On the **joblab-\<*your initials*\>-20775A** blade, under **Job topology**, click **Outputs**.

15. On the **Outputs** blade, click **+ Add**, and then click **Blob storage**.

16. On the **Blob storage** blade, enter the following details, and then click **Save**:

    -   **Output alias**: LabOutput

    -   **Select Blob storage from your subscriptions**: Selected

    -   **Storage account**: \<*your initials*\>mod10labst

    -   **Container (Create new)**: laboutput

17. Wait until you receive **Successful connection test** notification message with **Connection to output 'LabOutput' succeeded** text.

18. On the **joblab-\<*your initials*\>-20775A** blade, under **Job topology**, click **Query**.

19. On the **Query** blade, delete the existing code, and then type the following code to create a Stream Analytics Query:
    ````
    Select
        dspl,
        min(hmdt) as min_hmdt,
        max(hmdt) as max_hmdt
    INTO LabOutput
    FROM LabInput
    GROUP BY dspl, 
    TUMBLINGWINDOW(mi, 1)
    ````

    > **Note**: This code is also available in the **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab10\\JobQuery.txt** file.

20. Click **Save**, and then click **Yes**.

21. Close the query blade.

#### Task 4: Execute a Stream Analytics job using Azure Portal

1.  On the **All resources** blade, click **joblab-\<*your initials*\>-20775A**, and then click **Start** to start the job execution.

2.  On the **Start job** blade, click **Custom**, change the time to an hour before the current time, and then click **Start**.

3.  Observe the job status changing from **Starting** to **Running** after a couple of minutes.

**Results**: At the end of this exercise, you will have deployed and configured a Stream Analytics job that can process, and transform a stream of real-time sensor data.

### Exercise 2: Managing Stream Analytics jobs

#### Task 1: Monitor a running Stream Analytics job using Azure Portal

1.  On the **joblab-\<*your initials*\>-20775A** blade, under **Monitoring**, click the graph.

2.  On the **Metrics** blade, observe the chart with a title **InputEvents, OutputEvents, Errors** with numbers below indicating **Input Events**, **Output Events**, and **Runtime Errors**.

3.  In the top left corner of the chart, click **Last hour (Automatic - 1 minute)**, click **Last 30 minutes**, and then click **Apply**.

4.  Observe chart changing its X-axis.

5.  Close the Metrics tab.

#### Task 2: Manage a Stream Analytics job using PowerShell commands

1.  On the Start menu, type **Windows PowerShell**, and then press Enter.

2.  At the PowerShell prompt, enter the following code, and then press Enter to log in to Azure account:
    ````
    Login-AzureRmAccount
    ````

3.  If a **Select Y to enable data collection prompt appears**, press n.

4.  Sign in using the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure Learning Pass subscription.

5.  At the PowerShell prompt, enter the following code, and then press Enter to get information about Stream Analytics job named **joblab-\<*your initials*\>-20775A** in the resource group **module10labrg**:
    ````
    Get-AzureRmStreamAnalyticsJob -ResourceGroupName module10labrg -Name joblab-<your initials>-20775A
    ````

6.  Observe various job properties, including **CreatedDate**, **JobState**, and **Properties** value with a JSON document that describes the job.

7.  Ensure that **JobState** is **Running** before running a cmdlet below.

8.  At the PowerShell prompt, enter the following code, and then press Enter to stop the job execution (replacing **joblab-\<*your initials*\>-20775A** with the name of the Stream Analytics job):
    ````
    Stop-AzureRmStreamAnalyticsJob -ResourceGroupName module10labrg -Name joblab-<your initials>-20775A
    ````

9.  After a couple of minutes observe returned value **True**.

10. Switch to Internet Explorer and observe the status of the job as **Stopped**.

11. Close Windows PowerShell, and then close the command prompt.

#### Task 3: Remove all Azure resources

1.  In the Microsoft Azure Portal, click **Resource groups**.

2.  On the **Resource groups** blade, right-click **module10labrg**, and then click **Delete resource group**.

3.  On the **Are you sure you want to delete** blade, in the **TYPE THE RESOURCE GROUP NAME** box, type **module10labrg**, and then click **Delete**.

4.  Wait for your resource group to be deleted, and then click **All resources**. Verify that the event hub, and the storage account that was created, have all been removed.

**Results**: At the end of this exercise, you will have monitored and managed a Stream Analytics job using Azure Portal and PowerShell cmdlets.

---

©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
