# Module 5: Troubleshooting HDInsight

## Lab: Troubleshooting HDInsight

### Exercise 1: Analyze HDInsight logs

#### Task 1: Prepare the lab environment

1.  Ensure that the **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, and **20775A-LON-DEV** virtual machines are running, and then log on to **20775A-LON-DEV** as **Admin** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

2.  On the **20775A-LON-DEV** virtual machine, on the Start menu, start to type **Internet Explorer**, and then click **Internet Explorer**.

3.  In the address bar, type **http://azure.microsoft.com**, click **Portal**, and then sign in using the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure Learning Pass subscription.

4.  In the Azure Portal, click **All resources**, and then verify that there are no existing HDInsight clusters in your subscription.

5.  In the Azure Portal, in the left pane, click **+ Create a resource**.

6.  Click **Analytics**, and then click **HDInsight**.

7.  On the **New HDInsight Cluster** blade, click **Custom (size, settings, apps)**.

8.  On the **Basics** blade, type the following details, and then click **Cluster type**:

    -   **Cluster name**: \<*your name*\>\<*date*\>mod05cluster

    -   **Subscription**: Your subscription

9.  On the **Cluster configuration** blade, enter the following details, and then click **Select**:

    -   **Cluster type**: Hadoop

    -   **Operating system**: Linux

    -   **Version**: Hadoop 2.7.3 (HDI 3.6)

10. On the **Basics** blade, enter the following details, and then click **Next**:

    -   **Cluster login username**: hadmin

    -   **Cluster login password**: Pa55w.rd123

    -   **Secure Shell (SSH) username**: sshuser

    -   **Use same password as cluster login**: selected

    -   **Resource group (Create new)**: mod05rg

    -   **Location**: Select your region

11. On the **Security + networking** blade, click **Next**.

12. On the **Storage** blade, under **Select a Storage account**, click **Create new**.

13. In the **Create a new Storage account** box, type **\<*your name*\>\<*date*\>mod05sa**; this name must be globally unique.

14. In the **Default container** box, replace the suggested name with **\<the name of your cluster\>-ctr** (for example, **\<*your name*\>\<*date*\>mod05cluster-ctr**).

15. Leave all other settings at their defaults, and then click **Next**.

16. On the **Applications** blade, click **Next**.

17. On the **Cluster size** blade, in the **Number of Worker nodes** box, type **2**.

18. Click **Worker node size**.

19. On the **Choose your node size** blade, click **View all**, click **D3 V2 Optimized**, and then click **Select**.

20. Click **Head node size**.

21. On the **Choose your node size** blade, click **View all**, click **D3 V2 Optimized**, and then click **Select**.

22. On the **Cluster size** blade, click **Next**.

23. On the **Script actions** blade, click **Next**.

24. On the **Cluster summary** blade, click **Create**.

25. The deployment might take 20-30 minutes to complete. Wait for the cluster to be provisioned.

26. In the Azure Portal, click **All resources**, click **\<*your name*\>\<*date*\>mod05cluster**, and then ensure the status shows as **Running**.

#### Task 2: Open the SSH connection to the HDInsight cluster

1.  In the Azure Portal, in the HDInsight Cluster blade for your HDInsight cluster, under **Settings**, click **SSH + Cluster login**.

2.  On the Secure Shell blade, in the **Hostname** list, click **\<clustername\>-ssh.azurehdinsight.net**, and then click **Click to copy** to copy the value to the the clipboard.

3.  Click **Start**, type **cmd**, and then press Enter.

4.  At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:
    ````
    putty
    ````

5.  In the **PuTTY Configuration** dialog box, on the **Session** page, in the **Host Name (or IP address)** box, paste the host name from step 2.

6.  In the **Host Name (or IP address)** box, at the beginning of the text, remove the **ssh**, so that it looks like the following:
    ````
    sshuser@<clustername>-ssh.azurehdinsight.net
    ````

7.  Under **Connection type**, click **SSH**, and then click **Open**.

8.  If a **PuTTY Security Alert** dialog box appears, click **Yes**.

9.  At the PuTTY prompt, type **Pa55w.rd123**, and then press Enter.

10. Verify that you get a **sshuser@hn...** prompt, which shows that you are logged into one of the head nodes of Hadoop cluster.

#### Task 3: Download HDInsight log files

1.  Using **File Explorer**, navigate to **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab05**, and then double-click **LogDirs.cmd**.

2.  Switch to the command prompt; note that, if you get an **Assertion failed** error for any of the **pscp** commands, wait a minute, and then try the command again.

    > **Note**: All of the following commands can be copied from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab05\\LogFileCmds.txt**.

3.  At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter (replacing **\<clustername\>**, with the name of your cluster):
    ````
    pscp -pw Pa55w.rd123 -r sshuser@<clustername>-ssh.azurehdinsight.net:/var/log/hadoop/hdfs/* e:/Logfiles/hadoop/
    ````

4.  At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter (replacing **\<clustername\>**, with the name of your cluster):
    ````
    pscp -pw Pa55w.rd123 -r sshuser@<clustername>-ssh.azurehdinsight.net:/var/log/hdinsight-agent/* e:/Logfiles/hdinsight-agent/
    ````

5.  At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter (replacing **\<clustername\>**, with the name of your cluster):
    ````
    pscp -pw Pa55w.rd123 -r sshuser@<clustername>-ssh.azurehdinsight.net:/var/log/syslog e:/Logfiles/syslog/
    ````

6.  At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter (replacing **\<clustername\>**, with the name of your cluster):
    ````
    pscp -pw Pa55w.rd123 -r sshuser@<clustername>-ssh.azurehdinsight.net:/var/log/ambari-agent/* e:/Logfiles/ambari-agent/
    ````

7.  Switch to the PuTTY console.

8.  At the PuTTY prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:
    ````
    sudo cp /var/log/ambari-server/ambari-server.log /home/sshuser
    ````

9.  At the PuTTY prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:
    ````
    sudo chmod 775 /home/sshuser/ambari-server.log
    ````

10. At the PuTTY prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:
    ````
    sudo cp /var/log/hdinsight-startupagent/hdinsight-startupagent.log /home/sshuser
    ````

11. At the PuTTY prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:
    ````
    sudo chmod 775 /home/sshuser/hdinsight-startupagent.log
    ````

12. Switch to the command prompt.

13. At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter (replacing **\<clustername\>**, with the name of your cluster):
    ````
    pscp -pw Pa55w.rd123 sshuser@<clustername>-ssh.azurehdinsight.net:/home/sshuser/ambari-server.log e:/Logfiles/ambari-server/
    ````

14. At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter (replacing **\<clustername\>**, with the name of your cluster):
    ````
    pscp -pw Pa55w.rd123 sshuser@<clustername>-ssh.azurehdinsight.net:/home/sshuser/hdinsight-startupagent.log e:/Logfiles/hdinsight-startupagent/
    ````

15. Using File Explorer, navigate to **E:\\Logfiles**.

16. Verify that there are log files in the following folders:

    -   ambari-agent

    -   ambari-server

    -   hadoop

    -   hdinsight-agent

    -   hdinsight-startupagent

    -   syslog

#### Task 4: View HDInsight log files using Power Query for Excel

1.  Click **Start**, type **Excel**, and then click **Excel 2016**.

2.  On the **Welcome** page, click **Blank workbook**.

3.  On the **Data** ribbon, click **New Query**, point to **From File**, and then click **From Text**.

4.  In the **Import Data** dialog box, navigate to **E:\\Logfiles\\hdinsight-startupagent**, select **All Files (*.*)**, click **hdinsight-startupagent.log**, and click **Import**.

5.  In the **hdinsight-startupagent -** **Query Editor** window, click **Split Column**, and then click **By Delimiter**.

6.  In the **Split by Delimiter** dialog box, in the **Select or enter delimiter** list, click **--Custom--**, in the box, type **-**, and then click **OK**.

7.  On the toolbar, click **Group By**.

8.  In the **Group By** dialog box, in the **Group by** list, click **Column1.5**, and then click **OK**.

9.  On the toolbar, click **Close & Load**.

10. The query will now import data into Excel.

11. Note that most of the messages logged are marked as **INFO**.

12. On the **Data** ribbon, click **New Query**, point to **From File**, and then click **From Text**.

13. In the **Import Data** dialog box, navigate to **E:\\Logfiles\\syslog**, select **All Files (*.*)**, click **syslog**, and then click **Import**.

14. In the **syslog - Query Editor** window, click **Column5**, click **Split Column**, and then click **By Delimiter**.

15. In the **Split by Delimiter** dialog box, in the list, click **Colon**, and then click **OK**.

16. On the toolbar, click **Close & Load**.

17. The query will now import data into Excel.

18. Note that **Column5.1** now contains the component or service name that is reporting an event into the syslog.

19. Close Microsoft Excel, without saving your changes.

**Results**: At the end of this exercise, you will have used SSH to locate and download a range of log files that are commonly used to help troubleshoot issues in HDInsight clusters. You will also have used Power Query for Excel to start to analyze several of these log files.

### Exercise 2: Analyze YARN log files

#### Task 1: Open a second SSH connection

1.  In the Azure Portal, in the **HDInsight Cluster** blade for your HDInsight cluster, under **Settings**, click **SSH + Cluster login**.

2.  On the Secure Shell blade, in the **Hostname** list, click **\<clustername\>-ssh.azurehdinsight.net**, and then click **Click to copy** to copy the value to the the clipboard.

3.  Click **Start**, type **putty**, and then click **PuTTY**.

4.  In the **PuTTY Configuration** dialog box, on the **Session** page, in the **Host Name (or IP address)** box, paste the host name from step 2.

5.  In the **Host Name (or IP address)** box, at the beginning of the text, remove the **ssh**, so that it looks like the following:
    ````
    sshuser@<clustername>-ssh.azurehdinsight.net
    ````

6.  Under **Connection type**, click **SSH**, and then click **Open**.

7.  If a **PuTTY Security Alert** dialog box appears, click **Yes**.

8.  At the PuTTY prompt, type **Pa55w.rd123**, and then press Enter.

9.  Verify that you get a **sshuser@hn...** prompt, which shows that you are logged into one of the head nodes of Hadoop cluster.

10. Arrange the second SSH console side-by-side with the one you opened earlier.

#### Task 2: View and analyze YARN logs using CLI

> **Note**: You can copy all of the following commands from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab05\\YarnCmds.txt**.

1.  Switch to the first PuTTY prompt.

2.  At the PuTTY prompt, type the following YARN command to run the MapReduce WordCount example job (do not press Enter):
    ````
    yarn jar/usr/hdp/current/hadoop-mapreduce-client/hadoop-mapreduce-examples.jar wordcount /example/data/gutenberg/davinci.txt /example/data/davinciwordcount
    ````

3.  Switch to the second PuTTY prompt.

4.  At the PuTTY prompt, type the following command, ready to retrieve the application ID for the above YARN job (but do not press Enter):
    ````
    yarn application --list
    ````

5.  Switch to the first PuTTY prompt, and press Enter.

6.  Switch to the second PuTTY prompt, and press Enter.

7.  If the results of this command show the **Total number of applications** as **0**, repeat the command until at least one application is reported.

8.  If the MapReduce job completes before you can determine the application ID, use the following command:
    ````
    yarn application --list --appStates FINISHED
    ````

9.  When the **Total number of applications** reports one or more applications, use the mouse to copy the application ID from the console display to the clipboard; this ID will be of the form *application_1496062917453_0003*.

10. At the PuTTY prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter (replacing **\<applicationId\>** with your copied ID):
    ````
    yarn logs -applicationId <applicationId> > wordcount.log
    ````

11. Switch to the Command Prompt.

12. At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter (replacing **\<clustername\>**, with the name of your cluster):
    ````
    pscp -pw Pa55w.rd123 sshuser@<clustername>-ssh.azurehdinsight.net:/home/sshuser/wordcount.log e:/Logfiles/yarn/
    ````

13. Using File Explorer, navigate to **E:\\Logfiles\\yarn**, and verify that the **wordcount.log** file has been downloaded.

#### Task 3: View and analyze YARN logs using Resource Manager UI

1.  In the Azure Portal, in the HDInsight Cluster blade, on the top menu,
    click **Cluster Dashboard**.

2.  If a **Windows Security** dialog box appears, in the **User name** box, type **hadmin**, in the **Password** box, type **Pa55w.rd123**, and then click **OK**.

3.  In the Ambari dashboard, in the left menu, click **YARN**.

4.  On the main page, in the **Quick Links** list, point to the node that is marked as **(Active)**, and then click **ResourceManager logs**.

5.  On the new browser tab, click **hadoop-mapreduce.jobsummary.log**.

6.  View the log information (you might need to scroll right to see it all).

7.  Click the browser **Back** button.

8.  Click **yarn-yarn-resourcemanager-hn ...log**.

9.  View the log information (you might need to scroll down and right to see it all); note that this is a very detailed log.

10. Close this browser tab.

11. On the main Ambari page, in the **Quick Links** list, point to the node that is marked as **(Active)**, and then click
    **ResourceManager UI**.

12. Click the link for your **\<applicationId\>** to view the same log as in the previous step.

13. Close this browser tab.

14. Close the Ambari dashboard tab.

**Results**: At the end of this exercise, you will have used SSH to locate and download a YARN log file, and used the Resource Manager UI as an alternative troubleshooting method.

### Exercise 3: Monitor Azure resources using the OMS

#### Task 1: Create an OMS workspace

1.  In the Azure Portal, in the left pane, click **+ Create a resource**.

2.  Click **Management Tools**, and then click **Log Analytics**.

3.  On the **Log analytics workspace** blade, enter the following details, and then click **OK**:

    -   **OMS Workspace**: \<*your name*\>\<*date*\>mod05oms

    -   **Subscription**: Your subscription

    -   **Resource group (Create new)**: mod05omsrg1

    -   **Location**: Select your region

    -   **Pricing tier**: Per GB

4.  After the deployment has succeeded, in the Azure Portal, in the left pane, click **+ Create a resource**.

5.  In the search box, type **Activity Log Analytics**, and then press Enter.

6.  On the **Everything** blade, click **Activity Log Analytics**, and then click **Create**.

7.  On the **Activity Log Analytics** blade, click **Select a workspace**, click **\<*your name*\>\<*date*\>mod05oms**, and then click **Create**.

8.  After the deployment has succeeded, in the Azure Portal, in the left pane, click **+ Create a resource**.

9.  Click **Security**, and then click **Security & Compliance**.

10. On the **Security & Compliance** blade, click **Select a workspace**, click **\<*your name*\>\<*date*\>mod05oms**, ensure that the **Antimalware Assessment** and **Security and Audit** solutions are selected, and then click **Create**.

11. After the deployment has succeeded, in the Azure Portal, click **All resources**, and then click **\<*your name*\>\<*date*\>mod05oms**.

12. On the **Overview** blade, verify that the management solutions have been added to your OMS workspace.

#### Task 2: Create a Linux VM and install the OMS agent

1.  In the Azure Portal, in the left pane, click **+ Create a resource**.

2.  Click **Compute**, click **See all**, click **Ubuntu Server**, click **Ubuntu Server 14.04 LTS**, and then click **Create**.

3.  On the **Basics** blade, enter the following details, and then click **Next: Disks**:

    -   **Subscription**: Your subscription

    -   **Resource group (Create new)**: mod05omsrg2

    -   **Virtual machine name**: omslinux01

    -   **Region**: Select your region

    -   **Size**: Click **Change size**, remove all filters, click **A1 Basic**, and then click **Select**.

    -   **Authentication type**: Password

    -   **User name**: vadmin

    -   **Password**: Pa55w.rdPa55w.rd

    -   **Confirm password**: Pa55w.rdPa55w.rd

4.  On the **Disks** blade, in the **OS disk type** list, click **Standard HDD**, and then click **Review + create**.

5.  On the **Review + create** blade, click **Create**.

6.  When the deployment has completed, click **All resources**, and then click **\<*your name*\>\<*date*\>mod05oms**.

7.  On the Log Analytics blade, under **Workspace Data Sources**, click **Virtual machines**.

8.  In the virtual machines list, click **omslinux01**.

9.  On the **omslinux01** blade, click **Connect**, to install the OMS agent and configure it for your OMS workspace.

10. Wait for the installation to complete, and then verify that the OMS connection status has been updated to **This workspace**.

#### Task 3: View OMS data

1.  On the **omslinux01** blade, under **WORKSPACE NAME**, click **\<*your name*\>\<*date*\>mod05oms**.

2.  On the Log Analytics blade, under **General**, click **Workspace summary**.

3.  Wait for 5-10 minutes until there is data displayed in the summary tiles for the **Azure Activity Logs**, and **Security and Audit** management solutions; you might need to click **Refresh** (the **Antimalware Assessment** solution might take several hours to complete an initial assessment).

4.  Click **Azure Activity Logs**, and review the data items presented on the dashboard.

5.  On the breadcrumbs list, click **Overview**.

6.  Click **Security and Audit**, and review the data items presented on the dashboard.

#### Task 4: Remove cluster and OMS resources

1.  In the Microsoft Azure Portal, in the left-hand menu, click **Resource groups**.

2.  On the **Resource groups** blade, click **mod05omsrg2**, and then click **Delete resource group**.

3.  On the confirmation blade, type **mod05omsrg2**, and then click **Delete**.

4.  Wait for your resource group to be deleted, and then click **All resources**. Verify that the VM, and the resources that were created with the VM, have all been removed.

5.  In the left-hand menu, click **Resource groups**.

6.  On the **Resource groups** blade, click **mod05omsrg1**, and then click **Delete resource group**.

7.  On the confirmation blade, type **mod05omsrg1**, and then click **Delete**.

8.  Wait for your resource group to be deleted, and then click **All resources**. Verify that the OMS workspace, and the storage account that was created with your workspace, have both been removed.

9.  In the left-hand menu, click **Resource groups**.

10. On the **Resource groups** blade, click **mod05rg**, and then click **Delete resource group**.

11. On the confirmation blade, type **mod05rg**, and then click **Delete**.

12. Wait for your resource group to be deleted, and then click **All resources**. Verify that the cluster, and the storage account that was created with your cluster, have both been removed.

**Results**: At the end of this exercise, you will have connected a Linux VM to an OMS workspace, and then used OMS to monitor this example Azure resource.

©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
