# Module 11: Implementing Streaming Solutions with Kafka and HBase

## Lab: Implementing streaming solutions with Kafka and HBase

### Exercise 1: Prepare the lab environment

#### Task 1: Install IntelliJ IDEA


> **Note**: If you already have all these components installed in the 20775A-LON-DEV virtual machine, you can skip these tasks and move on to task 4.

1.  Ensure that the **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, and **20775A-LON-DEV** virtual machines are running, and then log on to **20775A-LON-DEV** as **Admin** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

2.  Start Internet Explorer, and browse to **https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/download/index.html#section=windows**.

3.  Under **Community**, click **Download**.

4.  In the message box, click **Run**.

5.  If the **User Account Control** dialog box appears, click **Yes**.

6.  In the **IntelliJ IDEA Community Edition Setup** wizard, on the **Welcome to the IntelliJ IDEA Community Edition Setup** page, click **Next**.

7.  On the **Choose Install Location** page, click **Next**.

8.  On the **Installation Options** page, select the **64-bit launcher** check box, and then click **Next**.

9.  On the **Choose Start Menu Folder** page, click **Install**.

10. On the **Completing IntelliJ IDEA Community Edition Setup** page, click **Finish**.

11. In Internet Explorer, browse to **https://www.scala-lang.org/download/**.

12. Under **Other resources**, click **scala-2.12.7.msi**.

13. In the message box, click **Run**.

14. In the **Scala Programming Language Distribution Setup** dialog box, on the welcome page, click **Next**.

15. On the **End-User License Agreement** page, click **I accept the terms in the License Agreement**, and then click **Next**.

16. On the **Custom Setup** page, click **Next**.

17. On the **Ready to install Scala Programming Language Distribution** page, click **Install**.

18. In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.

19. On the **Completed the Scala Programming Language Distribution Setup Wizard** page, click **Finish**.

20. Close Internet Explorer.

21. On the desktop, double-click **IntelliJ IDEA Community Edition**.

22. In the **Complete Installation** dialog box, click **Do not import settings**, and then click **OK**.

23. In the **JetBrains Privacy Policy** dialog box, scroll to the end of the text, and then click **Accept**.

24. In the **Data Sharing** dialog box, click **Don't send**.

25. In the **Customize IntelliJ IDEA** wizard, on the **Set UI theme** page, click **Next: Default plugins**.

26. On the **Tune IDEA to your tasks** page, click **Next: Featured plugins**.

27. On the **Download featured plugins** page, in the **Scala** section, click **Install**, and then click **Start using IntelliJ IDEA**.

#### Task 2: Configure IntelliJ IDEA

1.  In the **Welcome to IntelliJ IDEA** dialog box, click **Create New Project**.

2.  In the left-hand pane, click **Scala**, in the right-hand pane click **IDEA**, and then click **Next**.

3.  Under the **JDK** drop-down list box, click **Download JDK**. This action will open a web browser (Microsoft Edge or Internet Explorer).

4.  In the **Oracle** dialog box, click **AGREE AND PROCEED**.

5.  In the web browser, in the **Java SE Downloads** section, click the **Java Download** image button.

6.  In the **Java SE Development Kit** section, click **Accept License Agreement**, and then click the download link for the **Windows x64 EXE** version of the software.

7.  In the web browser message box, click **Save**.

8.  When the download has completed, in the web browser message box, click **Run**.

9.  If the **User Account Control** dialog box appears, click **Yes**.

10. In the **Java SE Development Kit Setup** wizard, on the welcome page, click **Next**.

11. On the optional features page, click **Next**.

12. When the installation has finished, click **Close**.

13. Close the web browser and return to the **New Project** dialog box in IntelliJ IDEA.

14. In the **New Project** dialog box, next to the **JDK** drop-down list box, click **New**.

15. In the **Select Home Directory for JDK** dialog box, browse to **C:\\Program Files\\Java**, click **jdk-11**, and then click **OK**.

16. In the **New Project** dialog box, next to the **Scala SDK** drop-down list box, click **Create**.

17. In the **Select JAR's for the new Scala SDK** dialog box, click **OK**.

18. In the **New Project** dialog box, click **Finish**.

19. In the **Windows Security Alert** dialog box for the **OpenJDK Platform binary**, click **Allow access**.

20. In the **Windows Security Alert** dialog box for **IntelliJ IDEA**, click **Allow access**.

21. In the **Tip of the Day** dialog box, clear **Show tips on startup**, and then click **Close**.
22. On the **File** menu, click **Settings**.

23. In the **Settings** dialog box, click **Plugins**.

24. In the **Plugins** pane, clear **Android Support**, and then click **Browse repositories**.

25. In the **Browse Repositories** dialog box, in the search box, type **Azure**.

26. Click **Azure Toolkit for IntelliJ**, and then click **Install**.

27. In the **Third-party Plugins Privacy Note** dialog box, click **Accept**.

28. In the **Browse Repositories** dialog box, click **Close**.

29. In the **Settings** dialog box, click **OK**.

30. In the **IDE and Plugin Updates** dialog box, click **Postpone**.

31. Close IntelliJ IDEA.

32. In the **Confirm Exit** dialog box, click **Exit**.

#### Task 3: Install PuTTY (if not already installed)

1.  In a web browser, navigate to **http://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/download.html**.

2.  Download the **putty.exe** file, saving it to a suitable folder on your local file system, such as C:\\putty.

3.  Optionally, create a shortcut to the putty.exe file on your desktop for convenience.

#### Task 4: Run the Setup script

1.  Using File Explorer, navigate to **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab11**, right-click **Setup.cmd**, and then click **Run as administrator**.

2.  In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.

3.  Close File Explorer.

**Results**: At the end of this exercise, you will have a Windows client with IntelliJ IDEA Community Edition, the Java SE Development Kit, the Scala SDK, and the PuTTY tool installed for use later in the lab.

### Exercise 2: Create a virtual network and gateway

#### Task 1: Create and configure a virtual network

1.  In Internet Explorer, in the address bar, type **http://portal.azure.com** and sign in using the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure Learning Pass subscription.

2.  Click **+ Create a resource**, in the search box, type **virtual network**, and then press Enter.

3.  In the **Results** list, click **Virtual network**.

4.  On the **Virtual network** blade, click **Create**.

5.  On the **Create virtual network** blade, specify the following values, and then click **Create**.

    -   **Name**: vnet\<*your initials\>\<ddmmyyyy*\> where *\<ddmmyyyy\>* is the current date

    -   **Address space**: 10.0.0.0/24 (allows 256 addresses)

    -   **Subscription**: Your subscription

    -   **Resource group (Create new)**: rg\<*your initials*\>

    -   **Location**: East US

    -   **Subnet**:
    
        -   **Name**: subnet\<*your initials\>\<ddmmyyyy*\> where *\<ddmmyyyy\>* is the current date

        -   **Address range**: 10.0.0.0/25 (allows 128 addresses, this is important, as it allows space for a VPN gateway subnet to be created later.

#### Task 2: Create a public IP address

1.  In the Azure Portal, click **+ Create a resource**, in the search box, type **public**, and then press Enter.

2.  In the **Results** list, click **Public IP address**, and then click **Create**.

3.  In the **Create public IP address** blade, specify the following values, and then click **Create**:

    -   **Name**: pip\<*your initials\>\<ddmmyyyy*\> where *\<ddmmyyyy\>* is the current date

    -   **DNS name label**: pip\<*your initials\>\<ddmmyyyy*\> where *\<ddmmyyyy\>* is the current date (this name must be regionally unique so, if necessary, append a letter or number).

    -   **Subscription**: Your subscription

    -   **Resource group (Use existing)**: rg\<*your initials*\>

    -   **Location**: East US

    -   Leave all other settings at their defaults

#### Task 3: Create VPN gateway

1.  In the Azure Portal, click **+ Create a resource**, in the search box, type **gateway**, and then press Enter.

2.  In the **Results** list, click **Virtual network gateway**, and then click **Create**.

3.  On the **Create virtual network gateway** blade, specify the following value, and then click **Choose a virtual network**:

    -   **Name**: gwy\<*your initials\>\<ddmmyyyy*\> where *\<ddmmyyyy\>* is the current date

    -   **SKU**: VpnGw1

4.  On the **Choose virtual network** blade, click your virtual network.

5.  On the **Create virtual network gateway** blade, specify the following values, and then click **Create**:

    -   **Public IP address (Use existing)**: pip\<*your initials\>\<ddmmyyyy*\>

    -   **Location**: East US

    -   Leave all other settings at their defaults

6.  Note that the gateway deployment may take up to 45 minutes to complete; you can continue with the next task while the gateway is being deployed, task5 requires the gateway to be ready.

#### Task 4: Create and install certificates

1.  Click **Start**, type **powershell**, and then click **Windows PowerShell ISE**.

2.  In Windows PowerShell ISE, on the **File** menu, click **Open**.

3.  In the **Open** dialog box, navigate to **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab11**, click **createCertificates.ps1**, and then click **Open**.

4.  On the toolbar, click **Run**.

5.  Click **Start**, type **certificates**, and then click **Manage user certificates**.

6.  In Certificate Manager, expand **Personal**, and then click **Certificates**.

7.  In the certificates list, right-click **P2SRootCert**, and then click **Cut**.

8.  Expand **Trusted Root Certification Authorities**, right-click **Certificates**, and then click **Paste**.

9.  In the **Security Warning** dialog box, click **Yes**.

10. Under **Trusted Root Certification Authorities**, click **Certificates**, right-click **P2SRootCert**, point to **All Tasks**, and then click **Export**.

11. In the **Certificate Export Wizard**, on the **Welcome to the Certificate Export Wizard** page, click **Next**.

12. On the **Export Private Key** page, click **Next**.

13. On the **Export File Format** page, click **Base-64 encoded X.509 (.CER)**, and then click **Next**.

14. On the **File to Export** page, click **Browse**.

15. In the **Save As** dialog box, navigate to **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab11**, in the **File name** box, type **P2SRootCert**, and then click **Save**.

16. On the **File to Export** page, click **Next**.

17. On the **Completing the Certificate Export Wizard** page, click **Finish**.

18. In the **Certificate Export Wizard** dialog box, click **OK**.

19. Close Certificate Manager.

20. Click **Start**, type **notepad**, and then click **Notepad**.

21. On the **File** menu, click **Open**.

22. In the **Open** dialog box, navigate to **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab11**, select **All Files (\*.\*)**, click **P2SRootCert.cer**, and then click **Open**.

23. In Notepad, delete the following line:
    ````
    -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
    ````

24. In Notepad, delete the following line:
    ````
    -----END CERTIFICATE-----
    ````

25. On the **File** menu, click **Save As**.

26. In the **Save As** dialog box, in the **File name** box, type **P2SRootCert-edited**, and then click **Save**.

27. Close Notepad.

28. Switch to Windows PowerShell ISE.

29. On the **File** menu, click **Open**.

30. In the **Open** dialog box, navigate to **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab11**, click **cleanCertificate.ps1**, and then click **Open**.

31. On the toolbar, click **Run**.

32. In the **Open** dialog box, navigate to **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab11**, click **P2SRootCert-edited.txt**, and then click **Open**.

33. Click **Start**, type **notepad**, and then click **Notepad**.

34. On the **File** menu, click **Open**.

35.   In the **Open** dialog box, navigate to **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab11**, click **P2SRootCert-edited.txt**, and then click **Open**.

36.  In Notepad, verify that the certificate data is now one single text string; keep Notepad open ready for the next task.

#### Task 5: Configure VPN gateway

1.  In the Azure Portal, click **All resources**, and check that the Virtual network gateway has been deployed; if the deployment has not completed, wait before proceeding.

2.  In the Azure Portal, in the **All resources** list, click **gwy\<*your initials\>\<ddmmyyyy*\>**.

3.  On the **Virtual network gateway** blade, under **Settings**, click **Point-to-site configuration**.

4.  On the **Point-to-site configuration** blade, click **Configure now**.

5.  In the **Address pool** box, type **172.16.201.0/24**.

6.  Under **Root certificates**, in the **NAME** box, type **P2SRootCert**.

7.  Switch to Notepad.

8.  On the **Edit** menu, click **Select All**.

9.  On the **Edit** menu, click **Copy**.

10. Switch to Internet Explorer.

11. In the Azure Portal, on the **Point-to-site configuration** blade, under **Root certificates**, right-click in the **PUBLIC CERTIFICATE DATA** box, and then click **Paste**.

12. On the **Point-to-site configuration** blade, click **Save**.

#### Task 6: Install VPN client

1.  In the Azure Portal, when the update to the Virtual network gateway is complete, click **Download VPN client**.

2.  In the message box, click the **Save** drop-down arrow, and then click **Save as**.

3.  In the **Save As** dialog box, navigate to **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab11**, and then click **Save**.

4.  In the message box, click **Open**.

5.  In File Explorer, double-click **WindowsAmd64**, and then double-click **VpnClientSetupAmd64.exe**.

6.  In the **Extract all** dialog box, click **Run**.

7.  If the **Windows protected your PC** dialog box appears, click **More info**, and then click **Run anyway**.

8.  In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.

9.  In the **vnet\<*your initials\>\<ddmmyyyy*\>** dialog box, click **Yes**.

10. On the taskbar, click **Internet access**, and then click **vnet\<*your initials\>\<ddmmyyyy*\>**.

11. In the **Settings** window, click **vnet\<*your initials\>\<ddmmyyyy*\>**, and then click **Connect**.

12. In the **vnet\<*your initials\>\<ddmmyyyy*\>** dialog box, click **Connect**.

13. In the **vnet\<*your initials\>\<ddmmyyyy*\>** dialog box, select the **Do not show this message again for this Connection** check box, and then click **Continue**.

14. Verify that the VPN status is now showing as **Connected**.

**Results**: By the end of this exercise, you should have a functioning virtual network and gateway, with the VPN client installed.

### Exercise 3: Create a Storm cluster for Kafka

#### Task 1: Create Storm cluster

1.  In the Azure Portal, click **+ Create a resource**.

2.  Click **Analytics**, and then click **HDInsight**.

3.  On the **HDInsight** blade, click **Custom (size, settings, apps)**.

4.  On the **Basics** blade, enter the following values, and then click **Next**:

    -   **Cluster name**: storm\<*your initials\>\<ddmmyyyy*\> where *\<ddmmyyyy\>* is the current date

    -   **Subscription**: Your subscription

    -   **Cluster type**: Click **Configure required settings**, enter the following values, and then click **Select**:

        -   **Cluster type**: Storm

        -   **Operating system**: Linux

        -   **Version**: Storm 1.1.0 (HDI 3.6)

    -   **Cluster login name**: admin

    -   **Cluster login password**: Pa55w.rdPa55w.rd

    -   **Secure Shell (SSH) username**: sshuser

    -   **Use same password as cluster login**: selected

    -   **Resource group (Use existing)**: rg\<*your initials*\>

    -   **Location**: East US

5.  On the **Security + networking** blade, in the **Virtual network** drop-down list box, click **vnet\<*your initials\>\<ddmmyyyy*\>/rg\<*your initials*\>**.

6.  In the **Subnet** list, click **subnet\<*your initials\>\<ddmmyyyy*\>**, and then click **Next**.

7.  On the **Storage** blade, under **Select a Storage account**, click **Create new**, type **sa\<*your initials\>\<ddmmyyyy*\>**, and then click **Next**.

8.  On the **Applications (optional)** blade, click **Next**.

9.  On the **Cluster size** blade, enter the following settings, and then click **Next**:

    -   **Number of Supervisor nodes**: 2

    -   **Supervisor node size (View all)**: D3 v2 (2 nodes, 8 cores)

    -   **Nimbus node size (View all)**: A3 (2 nodes, 8 cores)

    -   **Zookeeper node sizes (View all)**: A2 (3 nodes, 6 cores)

10. On the **Script actions** blade, click **Next**.

11. On the **Cluster summary** blade, click **Create**.

12. Wait for the cluster to be created before continuing.

#### Task 2: Configure Kafka brokers for IP advertising

1.  In the Azure Portal, click **All resources**, and then click **storm\<*your initials\>\<ddmmyyyy*\>**.

2.  On the **storm\<*your initials\>\<ddmmyyyy*\>** blade, under **Cluster dashboards**, click **Ambari home**.

3.  In the **Windows Security** dialog box, enter the following credentials, and then click **OK**:

    -   **User name**: admin

    -   **Password**: Pa55w.rdPa55w.rd

4.  In the Ambari console, in the left menu, click **Kafka**, and then click the **Configs** tab.

5.  In the **Filter** box, type **kafka-env**.

6.  Add the following text to the bottom of the **kafka-env-template**; this can be copied from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab11\\KafkaIPAdvertising.txt**:
    ````
    # Configure Kafka to advertise IP addresses instead of FQDN

    IP_ADDRESS=$(hostname -i)

    echo advertised.listeners=$IP_ADDRESS

    sed -i.bak -e '/advertised/{/advertised@/!d;}'
    /usr/hdp/current/kafka-broker/conf/server.properties

    echo "advertised.listeners=PLAINTEXT://$IP_ADDRESS:9092" >>
    /usr/hdp/current/kafka-broker/conf/server.properties
    ````

7.  Click **Save**.

8.  In the **Save Configuration** dialog box, in the **Notes** box, type **Advertise Kafka IP**, and then click **Save**.

9.  In the **Save Configuration Changes** dialog box, click **OK**.

10. In the **Filter** box, type **listeners**.

11. In the **listeners** box, change the value to the following string, and then click **Save**:
    ````
    PLAINTEXT://0.0.0.0:9092
    ````

12. In the **Save Configuration** dialog box, in the **Notes** box, type **Listen on all interfaces**, and then click **Save**.

13. In the **Save Configuration Changes** dialog box, click **OK**.

14. Click **Service Actions**, and then click **Turn On Maintenance Mode**.

15. In the **Confirmation** dialog box, click **OK**.

16. In the **Information** dialog box, click **OK**.

17. Click **Restart**, and then click **Restart All Affected**.

18. In the **Confirmation** dialog box, click **Confirm Restart All**.

19. In the **Background Operation Running** dialog box, wait for all the operations listed to complete, and then click **OK**.

20. Click **Service Actions**, and then click **Turn Off Maintenance Mode**.

21. In the **Confirmation** dialog box, click **OK**.

22. In the **Information** dialog box, click **OK**.

#### Task 3: Get IP addresses of worker nodes

1.  Switch to the Windows PowerShell ISE.

2.  On the **File** menu, click **Open**.

3.  In the **Open** dialog box, navigate to **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab11**, click **ShowNodeIPs.ps1**, and then click **Open**.

4.  Replace **\<*resource group*\>** with the name the resource group you created for your virtual network.

5.  On the toolbar, click **Run**.

6.  In the **Windows PowerShell ISE** dialog box, click **OK**.

7.  In the **Sign in to your account** dialog box, sign in using the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure Learning Pass subscription.

8.  Make a note of the two worker node IP addresses.

**Results**: By the end of this exercise, you should have created a Storm cluster, configured Kafka brokers for IP advertising, and obtained the IP addresses of the worker nodes.

### Exercise 4: Create an HBase cluster

#### Task 1: Create HBase cluster

1.  In the Azure Portal, click **+ Create a resource**.

2.  Click **Analytics**, and then click **HDInsight**.

3.  On the **HDInsight** blade, click **Custom (size, settings, apps)**.

4.  In the **Basics** blade, enter the following values, and then click **Next**:

    -   **Cluster name**: hbase\<*your initials\>\<ddmmyyyy*\> where *\<ddmmyyyy\>* is the current date

    -   **Subscription**: Your subscription

    -   **Cluster type**: Click **Configure required settings**, enter the following values, and then click **Select**:

        -   **Cluster type**: Hbase

        -   **Operating system**: Linux

        -   **Version**: Hbase 1.1.2 (HDI 3.6)

    -   **Cluster login name**: admin

    -   **Cluster login password**: Pa55w.rdPa55w.rd

    -   **Secure Shell (SSH) username**: sshuser

    -   **Use same password as cluster login**: selected

    -   **Resource Group (Use existing)**: rg\<*your initials*\>

    -   **Location**: East US

5.  On the **Security + networking** blade, in the **Virtual network** drop-down list box, click **vnet\<*your initials\>\<ddmmyyyy*\>/rg\<*your initials*\>**.

6.  In the **Subnet** list, click **subnet\<*your initials\>\<ddmmyyyy*\>**, and then click **Next**.

6.  On the **Storage** blade, under **Select a Storage** account, click **Create new**.

7.  In the **Create a new Storage account** box, and enter **sa2\<*your initials\>\<ddmmyyyy*\>**, and then click **Next**.

8.  On the **Applications (optional)** blade, click **Next**.

9.  On the **Cluster size** blade, in the **Number of Region nodes** box, type **2**.

10. Click **Region node size**.

11. On the **Choose your node size** blade, click **View all**, click **A3 General Purpose**, and then click **Select**.

12. Click **Head node size**.

13. On the **Choose your node size** blade, click **View all**, click **A3 General Purpose**, and then click **Select**.

14. On the **Cluster size** blade, click **Next**.

15. On the **Script actions** blade, click **Next**.

16. On the **Cluster summary** blade, click **Create**.

17. You can continue to the next task while the cluster is created.

**Results**: By the end of this exercise, you will have created an HBase cluster.

### Exercise 5: Create a Kafka producer

#### Task 1: Create producer

1.  On the desktop, double-click **IntelliJ IDEA Community Edition**.

2.  On the **File** menu, click **Open**.

3.  In the **Open File or Project** dialog box, navigate to the **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab11\\Kafka\\Producer** folder, and then click **OK**.

4.  In the **Open Project** dialog box, click **This Window**.

5.  In the **Project JDK is not defined** message, click **Setup JDK**.

6.  In the **Select Project SDK** dialog box, click **OK**.

7.  In the **No Scala SDK in module** message, click **Setup Scala SDK**.

8.  In the **Add Scala Support** dialog box, click **OK**.

9.  On the **Run** menu, click **Edit Configurations**.

10. On the **Configuration** tab, edit the **Program arguments**, so that bootstrap server IP addresses are the worker node IP addresses that you noted earlier, and then click **OK**.

11. On the toolbar, click **Run**.

12. After a few minutes, you should see messages being sent to topic "taxi-events".

#### Task 2: Test the producer

1.  Switch to the Azure Portal.

2.  On the overview blade for your Storm cluster, click **Secure Shell (SSH)**.

3.  In the **Secure Shell (SSH)** blade, copy the **Host name** to the clipboard.

4.  Click **Start**, then type **putty**, and then click **PuTTY**.

5.  In the **PuTTY Configuration** window, in the **Host Name (or IP address)** box, paste the host name from the clipboard, and then click **Open**.

6.  In the **PuTTY Security Alert** dialog box, click **Yes**.

7.  In the PuTTY terminal window, log in as **sshuser** with the password **Pa55w.rdPa55w.rd**.

8.  Switch to the Ambari console.

9.  On the **Kafka**, **Configs** page, make a note of the name of the first Kafka Broker host (it will be a long name, ending with **internal.cloudapp.net**).

10. Switch to the PuTTY terminal window.

11. In the PuTTY terminal window, type the following command, and then press Enter to start a bash shell as the superuser (this can be copied from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab11\\KafkaCmds.txt**),:
    ````
    sudo bash
    ````

12. In the PuTTY terminal window, type the following command, and then press Enter to change to the kafka-broker/bin folder:
    ````
    cd /usr/hdp/current/kafka-broker/bin
    ````

13. In the PuTTY terminal window, type the following command, and then press Enter to run kafka-console-consumer.sh, replacing **\<kafka-broker\>** with the name of the Kafka Broker host you copied in step 9:
    ````
    ./kafka-console-consumer.sh --bootstrap-server <kafka-broker>:9092
    --topic taxi-events
    ````

14. You should now see the "taxi-events" topic messages being picked up by the Kafka consumer.

**Results**: By the end of this exercise, you will have created and tested a Kafka producer.

### Exercise 6: Create a Power BI dashboard

#### Task 1: Obtain the HBase node IP address

1.  In the Azure Portal, click **All resources**, and then click your HBase cluster.

2.  On the cluster overview blade, click **Dashboard**.

3.  In the **Windows Security** dialog box, enter the following credentials, and then click **OK**:

    -   **User name**: admin

    -   **Password**: Pa55w.rdPa55w.rd

4.  In the Ambari console, in the left menu, click **HBase**.

5.  On the **Summary** tab, click **Active HBase Master**, and then in the **Summary** section, make a note of the IP Address.

#### Task 2: Create a Power BI streaming dataset

1.  In Internet Explorer, open a new tab, and go to **http://www.PowerBI.com**.

2.  Click **Sign in**, and sign in using your Power BI credentials.

3.  Close the **Get Data** page.

4.  Click **+ Create**, and click **Streaming dataset**.

5.  On the **New streaming dataset** blade, click **API**, and click **Next**.

6.  On the **New streaming dataset** blade, enter the following details, and then click **Create**:

    -   **Dataset name**: Taxi Trips

    -   **Values from stream**:

        -   **NumTrips**: Number

        -   **AvgPassengers**: Number

        -   **AvgDistance**: Number

        -   **AvgFare**: Number

7.  Copy the **Push URL** to Notepad, and then click **Done**.

#### Task 3: Create a Power BI dashboard

1.  In Internet Explorer, on the Power BI page, click **Dashboards**.

2.  Click **+ Create**, and click **Dashboard**.

3.  In the **Create Dashboard** dialog box, in the **Dashboard name**, box, type **Taxi Trips**, and then click **Create**.

4.  Click **+ Add tile**.

5.  On the **Add tile** blade, click **CUSTOM STREAMING DATA**, and click **Next**.

6.  On the **Add a custom streaming data tile** blade, click **Taxi Trips**, and click **Next**.

7.  On the **Add a custom streaming data tile** blade, in the **Visualization Type** list, click **Card**.

8.  Under **Fields**, click **Add value**.

9.  In the **Fields** list, click **NumTrips**, and then click **Next**.

10. On the **Tile details** blade, in the **Title** box, type **Number of Trips**, and then click **Apply**.

11. Click **+ Add tile**.

12. On the **Add tile** blade, **click CUSTOM STREAMING DATA**, and then click **Next**.

13. On the **Add a custom streaming data tile** blade, click **Taxi Trips**, and then click **Next**.

14. On the **Add a custom streaming data tile** blade, in the **Visualization** **Type** list, click **Card**.

15. Under **Fields**, click **Add value**.

16. In the **Fields** list, click **AvgPassengers**, and then click **Next**.

17. On **Tile details** blade, in **Title** box, type **Average Passengers**, and click **Apply**.

18. Click **+ Add tile**.

19. On the **Add tile** blade, click **CUSTOM STREAMING DATA**, and then click **Next**.

20. On the **Add a custom streaming data tile** blade, click **Taxi Trips**, and then click **Next**.

21. On the **Add a custom streaming data tile** blade, in the **Visualization Type** list, click **Card**.

22. Under **Fields**, click **Add value**.

23. In the **Fields** list, click **AvgDistance**, and then click **Next**.

24. On the **Tile details** blade, in the **Title** box, type **Average Distance**, and then click **Apply**.

25. Click **+ Add tile**.

26. On the **Add tile** blade, click **CUSTOM STREAMING DATA**, and then click **Next**.

27. On the **Add a custom streaming data tile** blade, click **Taxi Trips**, and then click **Next**.

28. On the **Add a custom streaming data tile** blade, in the **Visualization Type** list, click **Card**.

29. Under **Fields**, click **Add value**.

30. In the **Fields** list, click **AvgFare**, and then click **Next**.

31. On the **Tile details** blade, in the **Title** box, type **Average Fare ($)**, and click **Apply**.

**Results**: By the end of this exercise, you will have obtained the HBase node IP address, created a Power BI streaming dataset and created a Power BI dashboard.

### Exercise 7: Create a streaming processor client topology

#### Task 1: Create Kafka streaming processor

1.  Switch to IntelliJ IDEA.

2.  On the **File** menu, click **Open**.

3.  In the **Open File or Project** dialog box, navigate to the **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab11\\Kafka\\Streamer** folder, and then click **OK**.

4.  In the **Open Project** dialog box, click **New Window**.

5.  In the new instance of **IntelliJ IDEA**, in left-hand navigator pane, double-click **streamerdriver**; note that the new instance may be hidden behind the first one.

6.  On the **Run** menu, click **Edit Configurations**.

7.  On the **Configuration** tab, edit the **Program arguments**, with the following information, and then click **OK**:

    -   **Bootstrap server IP addresses**: the worker node IP addresses that you noted earlier in Exercise 3.

    -   **Power BI dashboard endpoint URL**: the URL you copied in task 3 of the last exercise.

    -   **HBase node IP address**: the HBase active master IP address you noted in task 1 of the last exercise.

8.  On the toolbar, click **Run**.

9.  After a few minutes, you should see messages being sent to the Power BI dashboard, and to HBase.

#### Task 2: View the Power BI dashboard

1.  Switch to the Internet Explorer Power BI dashboard tab.

2.  After a few moments, you should see the **Number of Trips**, **Average Passengers**, **Average Distance**, and **Average Fare ($)** tiles start to display live real-time data.


#### Task 3: Run HBase query

1.  Switch to the Azure Portal and on the overview blade for your HBase cluster, click **Secure Shell (SSH)**.

2.  In the **Secure Shell (SSH)** blade, copy the **Host name** to the clipboard.

3.  Click Start, then type **putty**, and then click **PuTTY** to start a second instance of PuTTY.

4.  In the **PuTTY Configuration** window, in the **Host Name** field, paste the host name from the clipboard, and then click **Open**.

5.  In the **PuTTY Security Alert** message box, click **Yes**.

6.  In the PuTTY terminal window, log in as **sshuser** with password **Pa55w.rdPa55w.rd**.

7.  Type the following command to start a bash shell as the superuser (this can be copied from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab11\\HBaseCmds.txt**:
    ````
    sudo bash
    ````

8.  Type the following command and press Enter, to start the HBase shell:
    ````
    hbase shell
    ````

9.  Type the following command and press Enter, to display HBase tables list:
    ````
    list
    ````

10. Type the following command and press Enter, to display the content of the TaxiData table:
    ````
    scan 'TaxiData'
    ````

11. Type the following command and press Enter, to display a row of data, replacing **\<row number\>** with one of the row numbers shown in the results of the previous command:
    ````
    get 'TaxiData','<row number>'
    ````

12. Type the following command and press Enter, to close the HBase shell:
    ````
    exit
    ````

13. Close the SSH console.

#### Task 4: Lab clean-up

1.  Close both instances of IntelliJ IDEA; if prompted to terminate a process, click **Terminate**.

2.  Close the remaining SSH console; if prompted click **OK**.

3.  On the taskbar, click **Internet access**, and then click your VPN connection.

4.  In **Settings**, click your VPN connection, and then click **Disconnect**.

5.  In the Microsoft Azure Portal, in the left-hand menu, click **Resource groups**.

6.  On the **Resource groups** blade, click your resource group.

7.  On the Resource group blade, click **Delete**.

8.  On the confirmation blade, type the name of your resource group, and then click **Delete**.

9.  Wait for your resource group to be deleted, and then click **All resources**.

10. Verify that the clusters, gateway, vnet, and the storage accounts that were created with your clusters, have all been removed.

**Results**: By the end of this lab you will have created a Kafka streaming processor, viewed the outputs on the Power BI dashboard, run an HBase query and cleaned up the lab.

©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
