# Module 2: Deploying HDInsight Clusters

## Lab: Managing HDInsight clusters by using the Azure Portal

### Exercise 1: Create an HDInsight cluster that uses Data Lake Store storage

#### Task 1: Create a Data Lake Store account

1.  Ensure that the **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, and **20775A-LON-DEV** virtual machines are running, and then log on to **20775A-LON-DEV** as **Admin** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

2.  On the Start menu, type **Internet Explorer**, and then press Enter.

3.  In Microsoft Internet Explorer®, navigate to **https://portal.azure.com**, and then sign in using the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure Pass subscription.

4.  In the Azure Portal, click **+ Create a resource**, click **Storage**, and then click **Data Lake Storage Gen1**.

5.  On the **New Data Lake Storage Gen1** blade, type the following information, and then click **Encryption settings**:

    -   **Name**: \<*your name*\>\<*date*\>dls

    -   **Subscription**: *Your Azure subscription*

    -   **Resource group (Create new)**: datalakerg

    -   **Location**: Select your region

    -   **Pricing package**: Pay-as-You-Go

6.  On the **Encryption settings** blade, in the **Encryption type** list, click **Do not enable encryption**, and then click **OK**.

7.  On the **New Data Lake Storage Gen1** blade, click **Create**.

8.  Wait until the Data Lake Store account has been created before continuing with this exercise.

9.  In the Azure Portal, click **All resources**, and then click **\<*your name*\>\<*date*\>dls**.

10. On the **\<*your name*\>\<*date*\>dls** blade, click **Data explorer**, click **New folder**, type **clusters**, and then click **OK**.

#### Task 2: Define basic configuration for a Linux-based Spark cluster

1.  In the Azure Portal, click **+ Create a resource**.

2.  Click **Analytics**, and then click **HDInsight**.

3.  On the **Basics** blade, type the following information:

    -   **Cluster name**: \<*your name*\>\<*date*\>hdi

    -   **Subscription**: *Your Azure subscription*

4.  Under **Cluster type**, click **Configure required settings**.

5.  On the **Cluster configuration** blade, enter the following information, and then click **Select**:

    -   **Cluster type**: Spark

    -   **Operating system**: Linux

    -   **Version**: Spark 2.3.0 (HDI 3.6)

6.  On the **Basics** blade, type the following information, and then click **Next**:

    -   **Cluster login password**: Pa55w.rdPa55w.rd

    -   **Resource group (Use existing)**: datalakerg

    -   **Location**: Select your region

#### Task 3: Configure access between the Spark cluster and the Data Lake Store account

1.  On the **Storage** blade, in the **Primary storage type** list, click **Azure Data Lake Storage Gen1**.

2.  Under **Data Lake Storage Gen1 account**, click **Configure required settings**.

3.  On the **Select Data Lake Storage Gen1** blade, click **\<*your name*\>\<*date*\>dls**.

4.  On the **Storage** blade, under **Data Lake Storage Gen1 access**, click **Configure required settings**.

5.  On the **Data Lake Storage Gen1** blade, under **Select Azure AD service principal**, click **Create new**, and then click **Service principal**.

6.  On the **Create service principal** blade, type the following information, and then click **Create**:

    -   **Service principal name**: \<*your name*\>\<*date*\>sp

    -   **Certificate password**: Pa55w.rd

    -   **Confirm password**: Pa55w.rd

7.  On the **Data Lake Storage Gen1** blade, click **Access**.

8.  On the **Select file permissions** blade, position the cursor over **\<*your name*\>\<*date*\>dls**, select the check box, and then click **Select**.

9.  On the **Assign selected permissions** blade, click **Run**.

10. Wait until the permissions have been assigned, and then click **Done**.

11. On the **Data Lake Storage Gen1** blade, click **Select**.

12. On the **Storage** blade, click **Next**.

#### Task 4: Provision the cluster and verify cluster creation

1.  On the **Cluster summary** blade, next to **Cluster size**, click **Edit**.

2.  On the **Cluster size** blade, in the **Number of Worker nodes** box, type **1**.

3.  Click **Worker node size**.

4.  On the **Choose your node size** blade, click **View all**, click **A3 General Purpose**, and then click **Select**.

5.  Click **Head node size**.

6.  On the **Choose your node size** blade, click **View all**, click **A3 General Purpose**, and then click **Select**.

7.  On the **Cluster size** blade, click **Next**.

8.  On the **Script actions** blade, click **Next**.

9.  On the **Cluster summary** blade, note the estimated cost per hour of this cluster. To avoid using up your Azure Pass allowance, it is important that you remove the cluster when you are not using it.

10. On the **Cluster summary** blade, click **Create**.

11. The deployment might take 20-30 minutes to complete. Wait for the cluster to be provisioned.

12. In the Azure Portal, click **All resources**, and then click **\<*your name\>\<date*\>hdi**.
13. Before continuing with this exercise, ensure the **Status** shows as **Running**.

14. On the **\<*your name\>\<date*\>hdi** blade, under **Settings**, click **Storage accounts**. Verify that the HDInsight cluster is using the Data Lake Store account.

15. On the **\<*your name\>\<date*\>hdi** blade, under **Settings**, click **Data Lake Storage Gen1**. Verify that the service principal is correctly associated with the HDInsight cluster, and that the **SERVICE PRINCIPAL** status is **Enabled**.

**Results**: At the end of this exercise, you will have set up an HDInsight cluster that uses Data Lake Store as the storage.

### Exercise 2: Customize HDInsight by using script actions

#### Task 1: Create a storage account to use as additional storage

1.  In the Azure Portal, click **+ Create a resource**.

2.  Click **Storage**, and then click **Storage account - blob, file, table, queue**.

3.  On the **Create storage account** blade, enter the following values, and then click **Review + create**:

    -  **Subscription**: *Your Azure subscription*

    -   **Resource group (Use existing)**: datalakerg

    -  **Storage accountName**: \<*your name*\>\<*date*\>sa

    -  **Location**: Select your region
  
    -  **Replication**: Locally-redundant storage (LRS)

4.  On the **Create storage account** blade, click **Create**.

5.  Wait for the storage account to be created before continuing with this exercise.

6.  In the Azure Portal, click **All resources**, and then click **\<*your name*\>\<*date*\>sa**.

7.  On the **Storage account** blade, under **Settings**, click **Access keys**.

8.  Under **key1**, to the right of the **Key** column, click **Click to copy**.

9.  Click **Start**, type **notepad**, and then press Enter.

10. In Notepad, press CTRL+V to paste the storage account access key for easy access in the next task.

#### Task 2: Connect additional storage to a running cluster by using a script action

1.  In the Azure Portal, click **All resources**, and then click **\<*your name*\>\<*date*\>hdi**.

2. On the **HDInsight cluster** blade, under **Settings**, click **Script actions**.

3. On the **Script actions** blade, click **+ Submit new**.

4. On the **Submit script action** blade, enter the following information, and then click **Create**:

    -   **Script type**: Add an Azure Storage account

    -   **Node type(s)**:
  
        -   **Head**: Selected

        -   **Worker**: Selected

    -   **Parameters**: \<*your name*\>\<*date*\>sa - press Spacebar, and then copy and paste the access key value from Notepad.

5.  The script will appear in the **SCRIPT ACTION HISTORY** list, with a running status. The script has run successfully when the icon next to it changes to a green check mark.

    Wait until the script completes before continuing with the exercise.

6. In the Azure Portal, click **All resources**, and then click **\<*your name*\>\<*date*\>hdi**.

7. On the **HDInsight cluster** blade, click **Cluster dashboards**.

8. On the **Cluster dashboards** blade, click **Ambari home**.

9. If the **Windows Security** dialog box appears, in the **User name** box, type **admin**, and in the **Password** box, type **Pa55w.rdPa55w.rd**, and then click **OK**.

10. On the Ambari home page, click **HDFS**, and then click **Configs**.

11.  In the **Filter** box, type **\<*your name*\>\<*date*\>sa** (your additional storage account).

12. Verify that two entries exist for the storage account. This confirms that the storage account has been added to the cluster nodes.

13. When you have finished, close the Ambari browser tab.

**Results**: At the end of this exercise, you will have used script actions from the Azure Portal to add storage to a running cluster.

### Exercise 3: Delete an HDInsight cluster

#### Task 1: Delete the HDInsight cluster and storage account

1.  In the Azure Portal, on the left menu, click **Resource groups**.

2.  On the **Resource groups** blade, right-click **datalakerg**, and then click **Delete resource group**.

3.  On the **Are you sure you want to delete "datalakerg"?** blade, in the **TYPE THE RESOURCE GROUP NAME** box, type **datalakerg**, and then click **Delete**.

4.  Wait for your resource group to be deleted, click **All resources**, and then verify that the cluster, and the storage account that was created with your cluster, have both been removed.

**Results**: At the end of this exercise, you will have deleted a cluster, and its storage account, by using the Azure Portal.

---

©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
