# Module 4: Loading Data into HDInsight

## Lab: Loading data into your Azure account

### Exercise 1: Load data for use with HDInsight

#### Task 1: Install Bash

1.  Ensure that the **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, **20775A-LON-DEV** virtual machines are running, and then log on to **20775A-LON-DEV** as **Admin** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

2.  Click **Start**, type **Services**, and then press Enter.

3.  Right-click **Windows Update**, and then click **Properties**.

4.  In the **Windows Updated Properties (Local Computer)** dialog box, in the **Startup type** list, click **Manual**, and then click **Apply**.

5.  Click **Start**, and then click **Settings**.

6.  In Windows Settings, click **Update & security**, and then click **For developers**.

7.  Under **Use developer features**, click **Developer mode**.

8.  In the **Use developer features** dialog box, click **Yes**.

9.  Wait until the **Developer Package** has been installed.

10. Close Settings.

11. In the **Windows Updated Properties (Local Computer)** dialog box, in the **Startup type** list, click **Disabled**, and then click **OK**.

12. If the **Windows Update** service is running, right-click **Windows Update**, and then click **Stop**.

13. Close Services.

14. Right-click **Start**, and then click **Control Panel**.

15. Click **Programs**, and then click **Turn Windows Features on or off**.

16. In the **Windows Features** dialog box, select the **Windows Subsystem for Linux (Beta)** check box, and click **OK**.

17. In the **Windows Features** dialog box, click **Restart now**.

18. The **20775A-LON-DEV** virtual machine will restart and update with the new feature; this process may take several minutes.

19. Log in to the **20775A-LON-DEV** virtual machine as **Admin** with a password of **Pa55w.rd**.

20. Open a command prompt, type **bash**, and then press Enter.

21. As this is the first use, type **Y**, and press Enter; Ubuntu for Windows will now download-his process may take several minutes.

22. At the command prompt, type **root**, and then press Enter.

23. At the command prompt, type **exit**, and then press Enter.

24. Close the command prompt.

#### Task 2: Loading data using Sqoop

In this task, you will compute the top-selling products for the e-commerce store. You will create a SQL Database in Azure that holds the order summary data. You will use Sqoop to transfer data to HDInsight.

1.  On the Start menu, type **Internet Explorer**, and then press Enter.

2.  In Internet Explorer, navigate to **portal.azure.com** and log in using your Azure credentials.

3.  In the Azure Portal, in the left-hand pane, click **+ Create a resource**, click **Analytics**, and then click **HDInsight**.

4.  On the **Basics** blade, enter the following details, and then click **Cluster type**:

    -   **Cluster name**: \<*your name\>\<date*\>cn

    -   **Subscription**: *Your subscription*

5.  On the **Cluster configuration** blade, enter the following details, and then click **Select**:

    -   **Cluster type**: Hadoop

    -   **Operating system**: Linux

    -   **Version**: Hadoop 2.7.3 (HDI 3.6)

6.  On the **Basics** blade, enter the following details, and then click **Next**:

    -   **Cluster login password**: Pa55w.rd123

    -   **Resource group (Create new)**: mod04rg

7.  On the **Storage** blade, enter the following details, and then click **Next**:

    -   **Primary storage type**: Azure Storage

    -   **Select a Storage account (Create new)**: \<*your name\>\<date*\>sa

    -   **Default container**: *Use the default generated name*

8.  On the **Cluster summary** blade, next to **Cluster size**, click **Edit**.

9.  On the **Cluster size** blade, change the **Number of Worker nodes** to **1**, and then click **Next**.

10. On the **Scritp actions** blade, click **Next**.

11. On the **Cluster summary** blade, click **Create**.

    As the HDInsight cluster deploys, you can continue with the rest of the lab.

12. In the left-hand pane, click **SQL databases**, and then click **+ Add**.

13. On the **SQL Database** blade, enter the following details, and then click **Server**:

    -   **Database name**: \<*your name\>\<date*\>sqldb

    -   **Resource group (Use existing)**: mod04rg

    -   **Select source**: Sample (AdventureWorksLT)

14. On the **New server** blade, enter the following details, and then click **Select**:

    -   **Server name**: \<*your name\>\<date*\>srv

    -   **Server admin login**: ServerAdmin

    -   **Password**: Pa55w.rd

    -   **Confirm password**: Pa55w.rd

15. On the **SQL Database** blade, enter the following details, and then click **Create**:

    -   **Pricing tier**: Basic, 2 GB

16. On the **SQL databases** blade, click **Refresh**, and then click **\<*your name\>\<date*\>sqldb**.

17. On the **\<*your name\>\<date*\>sqldb** blade, click **Set server firewall**.

18. On the **Firewall settings** blade, click **Add client IP**, click **Save**, and then click **OK**.

19. Close the **Firewall settings** blade.

20. On the **\<*your name\>\<date*\>sqldb** blade, click **Query editor (preview)**.

21. On the **Welcome to SQL Database Query Editor** page, in the **Login** box, type **ServerAdmin**.

22. In the **Password** box, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then click **OK**.

23. In the query window, type the following code, and then click **Run**:
    ````
    SELECT * FROM SalesLT.[SalesOrderDetail]
    ````

24. In the query window, delete the existing code, type the following code, and then click **Run**:
    ````
    CREATE TABLE [SalesLT].[TopSellers]([qty] int,[productid] int )
    GO

    CREATE CLUSTERED INDEX ID_clustered_index on [SalesLT].TopSellers(qty)
    GO
    ````

25. Click **Start**, type **bash**, and then press Enter.

26. At the command prompt, execute the following command to SSH into your HDInsight cluster. Replace **\<clustername\>** with the cluster name you created earlier:
    ````
    ssh sshuser@<clustername>-ssh.azurehdinsight.net
    ````

27. At the command prompt, type **yes**, and then press Enter.

28. At the command prompt, type **Pa55w.rd123**, and then press Enter.

29. At the command prompt, execute the following Sqoop command to confirm connection to your SQL Database. It lists the databases on the SQL Database. Replace **\<*your name\>\<date*\>srv** with the server name you created earlier:
    ````
    sqoop list-databases --connect jdbc:sqlserver://<your name><date>srv.database.windows.net:1433 --username ServerAdmin --password Pa55w.rd
    ````

30. At the command prompt, execute the following to transfer the table from the SQL Database to HDInsight using Sqoop. Replace **\<*your name\>\<date*\>srv** with the server name you created earlier. Replace **\<*your name\>\<date*\>sqldb** with the database name you created earlier:
    ````
    sqoop import --connect 'jdbc:sqlserver://<your name><date>srv.database.windows.net:1433;database=<your name><date>sqldb' --username ServerAdmin --password Pa55w.rd --table 'SalesOrderDetail' --target-dir 'wasbs:///hive/warehouse/salesorderdetail' --fields-terminated-by '\t' --lines-terminated-by '\n' -m 1 -- --schema SalesLT
    ````

31. At the command prompt, execute the following to confirm a successful transfer using HDFS:
    ````
    hadoop fs -text wasbs:///hive/warehouse/salesorderdetail/part-m-00000
    ````

32. At the command prompt, execute the following to exit the SSH terminal:
    ````
    exit
    ````

33. Close the command prompt.

#### Task 3: Install AzCopy and AdlCopy

In the section, you will install AzCopy, and AdlCopy.

1.  In Internet Explorer, navigate to **http://aka.ms/downloadazcopy**.

2.  In the message box, click **Run**.

3.  In the **Microsoft Azure Storage AzCopy - v8.1.0-netcore Setup** dialog box, on the **Welcome to the Microsoft Azure Storage AzCopy - v8.1.0-netcore Setup Wizard** page, click **Next**.

4.  On the **End-User License Agreement** page, select the **I accept the terms in the License Agreement** check box, and then click **Next**.

5.  On the **Destination Folder** page, click **Next**.

6.  On the **Ready to install Microsoft Azure Storage AzCopy - v8.1.0-netcore** page, click **Install**.

7.  In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.

8.  On the **Completed the Microsoft Azure Storage AzCopy - v8.1.0-netcore Setup Wizard** page, click **Finish**.

9.  In Internet Explorer, navigate to **http://aka.ms/downloadadlcopy**, and then click **Download**.

10. In the message box, click **Run**.

11. In the **AdlCopy** dialog box, on the **Welcome to the AdlCopy Setup Wizard** page, click **Next**.

12. On the **License Agreement** page, click **I Agree**, and then click **Next**.

13. On the **Select** **Installation Folder** page, click **Next**.

14. On the **Confirm Installation** page, click **Next**.

15. In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.

16. On the **Installation Complete** page, click **Close**.

17. Close Internet Explorer.

#### Task 4: Loading data using AzCopy and AdlCopy

In this section, you will use AzCopy to move a large file from your local machine to Azure Blob storage. You will also copy the file to ADLS.

1.  In File Explorer, navigate to **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab04\\Starter\\LargeUpload**, right-click **dummy.zip**, and then click **Extract All**.

2.  In the **Extract Compressed (Zipped) Folder** dialog box, clear the **Show extracted files when complete** check box, and then click **Extract**.

3.  Click **Start**, type **Microsoft** **Azure Storage Explorer**, and then press Enter.

4.  If the **Connect to Azure Storage** dialog box appears, complete the following steps:

    1.  Click **Sign in**.

    2.  In the **Sign in to your account** dialog box, enter your Azure credentials, and then click **Sign in**.

5.  In Microsoft Azure Storage Explorer, right-click your storage account **\<*your name\>\<date*\>sa**, and then click **Copy** **Primary Key**.

6.  Click **Start**, type **Microsoft Azure Storage AzCopy**, and then press Enter.

7.  At the command prompt, type the following code to upload the **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab04\\Starter\\LargeUpload\\dummy.txt** file, and then press Enter. Replace **\<*your name\>\<date*\>sa** with your storage account name, and **\<yourPrimaryKey\>** with the key you copied from step 5:
    ````
    AzCopy /Source:E:\Labfiles\Lab04\Starter\LargeUpload /Dest:https://<your name><date>sa.blob.core.windows.net/uploadedfilek /DestKey:<yourPrimaryKey> /S
    ````

8.  You can also copy data using AzCopy. The last command had a typo. You meant to upload the data to a container named **uploadedfiles**, not **uploadedfilek**. At the command prompt, type the following code to copy the uploaded data to a new container in your storage account using AzCopy. Replace both instances of **\<*your name\>\<date*\>sa** with your storage account name, and **\<yourPrimaryKey\>** with the key you copied from step 5:
    ````
    AzCopy /Source:https://<your name><date>sa.blob.core.windows.net/uploadedfilek /Dest:https://<your name><date>sa.blob.core.windows.net/uploadedfiles /SourceKey:<yourPrimaryKey> /DestKey:<yourPrimaryKey> /S
    ````

9.  In Microsoft Azure Storage Explorer, right-click **\<*your name\>\<date*\>sa**, and then click **Refresh**.

10. Expand **\<*your name\>\<date*\>sa**, expand **Blob Containers**, and then click **uploadedfiles**. Note the **dummy.txt** file that was copied.

11. In Microsoft Azure Storage AzCopy, at the command prompt, type the following code to exit:
    ````
    Exit
    ````

12. In Internet Explorer, in the left-hand menu, click **Resource groups**.

13. In the **Message from webpage** dialog box, click **OK**.

14. On the **Resource groups** blade, click **mod04rg**, click **+ Add**, in the search box, type **Data Lake Store**, and then press Enter.

15. Click **Data Lake Store Gen1**, and then click **Create**.

16. In the **New Data Lake Store** blade, enter the following details, and then click **Create**:

    -   **Name**: \<*your name\>\<date*\>dls

17. Open a command prompt, type the following code, and then press Enter to start the AdlCopy command:
    ````
    cd Documents\AdlCopy
    ````

18. At the command prompt, type the following code, and then press Enter to use AdlCopy to move data from Azure Storage to ADLS. Replace **\<*your name\>\<date*\>sa** with your storage account name, **\<*your name\>\<date*\>dls** with your data lake storage account name, and **\<yourPrimaryKey\>** with the key you copied from step 5:
    ````
    AdlCopy /source https://<your name><date>sa.blob.core.windows.net/uploadedfiles/dummy.txt /dest swebhdfs://<your name><date>dls.azuredatalakestore.net/files/ /sourcekey <yourPrimaryKey>
    ````

19. If the **Sign in to your account** dialog box appears, enter your Azure credentials, and then click **Sign in**.

20. If the **Do you wish to continue** message appears, type **y**, and then press Enter.

21. At the command prompt, type the following code to exit:
    ````
    Exit
    ````

22. In Internet Explorer, in the left-hand menu, click **Resource groups**, right-click **mod04rg**, and then click **Delete resource group**.

23. In the **Are you sure you want to delete "mod04rg"** blade, in the **TYPE THE RESOURCE GROUP NAME** box, type **mod04rg**, and then click **Delete**.

---

©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
