# Module 3: Authorizing Users to Access Resources

## Lab: Authorize users to access resources

### Scenario

You are piloting the use of HDInsight clusters, and want to explore use authorization. In this lab, you will prepare a non-domain joined cluster environment, ready for management, and then explore the techniques for managing a non-domain joined cluster.

At the end of this lab, you will delete the cluster so that your use of Azure credits is not excessive.

### Objectives

By the end of this lab, you will be able to:

-   Prepare a cluster environment, ready for management.

-   Manage a non-domain joined cluster.

### Lab Setup

-   **Estimated Time**: 60 minutes

-   **Virtual machine**: 20775A-LON-DEV

-   **Username**: Admin

-   **Password**: Pa55w.rd

## Exercise 1: Prepare the lab environment

### Scenario

You need to plan the management of an HDInsight cluster, and must determine which tools and environment you will require for a non-domain joined environment.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create a cluster

2. Install bash

3. Install Mozilla Firefox

#### Task 1: Create a cluster

1.  Connect to the Azure Portal, and then sign in using the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure Learning Pass subscription.

2.  Create a new HDInsight cluster with the following details:

    -   **Cluster name**: \<*your name\>\<date*\>mod03hdi

    -   **Cluster type**: Hadoop

    -   **Operating system**: Linux

    -   **Version**: Hadoop 2.7.3 (HDI 3.6)

    -   **Cluster login username**: hadmin

    -   **Cluster login password**: Pa55w.rd123

    -   **SSH username**: sadmin

    -   **Resource group (Create new)**: mod03prg

    -   **Location**: Select your region

    -   **Storage account (Create new)**: \<*your name\>\<date*\>mod03sa

    -   **Cluster size**: Number of Worker nodes: 1

    -   **Worker node size**: A3 General Purpose

    -   **Head node size**: A3 General Purpose

3.  The deployment might take 20-30 minutes to complete. Wait for the cluster to be provisioned and do not continue with this exercise until the status shows as **Running**.

#### Task 2: Install bash

1.  Use **Windows Settings** to add **Developer mode** features to the **20775A-LON-DEV** virtual machine, and select **Windows Subsystem for Linux (Beta)**.

2.  Restart the **20775A-LON-DEV** virtual machine.

3.  At a command prompt, start bash, wait until Ubuntu for Windows has downloaded, and then set the user to **root**.

4.  Exit bash, and close the command prompt.

#### Task 3: Install Mozilla Firefox

1.  Download and install Mozilla Firefox from **http://www.mozilla.org**.

2.  Do not import any bookmarks, or set Firefox to be the default browser.

3.  Close Firefox.

**Results**: At the end of this exercise, you will have prepared a cluster environment, ready for management.

## Exercise 2: Manage a non-domain joined cluster

### Scenario

You need to plan the management of an HDInsight cluster, and must explore methods for managing a non-domain joined environment. You will start by using the Ambari console, and then set up an SSH tunnel, so that whatever traffic is sent to port 9876 on the local computer is routed to the cluster head node-and will appear to have originated on that node. You will be using a tunnel because, by default, the Name node UI for the HDInsight cluster is not accessible. However, because you have created an SSH tunnel, you should be able to access this UI. You will use the Name node UI to view job history, manage jobs with different statuses, and view cluster metrics.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Manage cluster resources using the Ambari dashboard

2. Create an SSH tunnel using bash

3. Verify SSH tunnel operation

4. Use an SSH tunnel to manage a cluster from the Name node UI

5. Remove cluster

#### Task 1: Manage cluster resources using the Ambari dashboard

1.  Check that your HDInsight cluster is running, and then open the cluster dashboard, using the following credentials:

    -   **User name**: hadmin

    -   **Password**: Pa55w.rd123

2.  On the **Metrics** page, view the graphic and text display for **HDFS Disk Usage**.

3.  View **Cluster Load**, and note that you get a graph of load over time.

4.  View the heatmap for **Host Memory Used %**; note the memory usage on the default rack.

5.  Use the **Services** tab to stop the **Oozie Server** service.

6.  In the **Background Operations Running** dialog box, note the progress of the background processes required to stop the Oozie Server component.

7.  Stop the **Hive Metastore** service.

8.  In the **Background Operations Running** dialog box, wait until all the background processes have completed and stopped the Hive Metastore component.

9.  New critical warnings should now appear on the top-left corner of the Ambari menu bar; note the details of the alert.

10. Start the **Hive Metastore** service.

11. Wait until the background processes required to start the Hive Metastore have completed, and then start the **Oozie Server** service.

12. Wait until the background processes required to start the Oozie Server have completed, and then on the **Alerts** tab, create a new alert group called **My Alerts**.

13. Add the HDFS **NameNode** component to this group.

#### Task 2: Create an SSH tunnel using bash

1.  Start **bash**, and then at the command prompt, type the following command to open an SSH connection to your HDInsight cluster, replacing **\<clustername\>** with the cluster name you created
    earlier:
    ````
    ssh sadmin@<clustername>-ssh.azurehdinsight.net -C2qTnNf -D 9876
    ````

    >**Note**: This command can be copied from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab03\\SshCmd.txt** and pasted by right-clicking the SSH console window.

    This command uses the following options:

    -   **C** - Compress all data

    -   **2** - Force SSH to try protocol version 2 only

    -   **q** - Quiet mode

    -   **T** - Disable pseudo-tty allocation, because only port forwarding is being used

    -   **n** - Prevent reading of STDIN, because only port forwarding is being used

    -   **N** - Do not execute a remote command, because only port forwarding is being used

    -   **f** - Run in the background

    -   **D 9876** - Connect over port 9876

2.  Answer **yes** to the security question, and use the password **Pa55w.rd123**.

#### Task 3: Verify SSH tunnel operation

1.  Start Mozilla Firefox, and in the **Advanced** page of **Options**, set the following **Network** settings for **Manual proxy configuration**:

    -   **SOCKS Host**: localhost

    -   **Port**: 9876

    -   **Proxy DNS when using SOCKS v5**: selected

2.  In Firefox, go to **http://www.whatismyip.com/**, and note that the IP address now displayed is the IP address of the Head node in the Microsoft datacenter.

#### Task 4: Use an SSH tunnel to manage a cluster from the Name node UI

1.  In **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab03**, rename **NameNode.ps1.txt** to **NameNode.ps1**.

2.  Start **Windows PowerShell ISE**, using **Run as administrator**.

3.  In the Windows PowerShell ISE, open **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab03\\NameNode.ps1**.

4.  Replace the two occurrences of **\<cluster name\>** with the name of your cluster:
    ````
    $creds=Get-Credential -Message "Enter Cluster user credentials (HTTP)" -UserName "hadmin"
    $resp = Invoke-WebRequest -Uri "https://<cluster name>.azurehdinsight.net/api/v1/clusters/<cluster name>/hosts" `
            -Credential $creds
        $respObj = ConvertFrom-Json $resp.Content
        $respObj.items.Hosts.host_name
    ````

5.  Run the script, and when prompted for Windows PowerShell credentials, use the password **Pa55w.rd123**.

6.  In the results list, select the complete line with the header node host name that starts with **hn1**, and copy this line to the clipboard.

7.  Switch to Mozilla Firefox, and paste the copied text in the address box, adding **:8088** to the end of the line, so that the final URL that you navigate to is of the form:
    ````
    http://hn1-demo123.3zwd1t2aw03elbtsm1pkluf5kf.zx.internal.cloudapp.net:8088
    ````

8.  In the Name node UI, use the **Cluster** menu to find overview information about the cluster, including memory usage.

9.  Use the **Cluster** menu to find information about the single node in the cluster, including the node's private IP address.

10. Use the **Cluster** menu to verify that there is a single Hive application running.

11. Use the **Tools** menu to explore local logs, and note that you can download several log files.

12. Use the **Tools** menu to explore server metrics; as you scroll through the JSON display, note that various metrics are reported, and that this data can be saved.

13. Close Mozilla Firefox.

14. Exit and close the bash prompt.

#### Task 5: Remove cluster

-   Delete the HDInsight cluster and storage account, by deleting the associated resource group.

**Results**: At completing this exercise, you will have managed a non-domain joined cluster using the Ambari console, and through the endpoint UI by using an SSH tunnel.

---

©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
