# Module 1: Getting Started with HDInsight

## Lab: Working with HDInsight

### Exercise 1: Provision an HDInsight cluster and run MapReduce jobs

#### Task 0: Prepare the environment

1.  Ensure that the **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, **20775A-LON-DEV** virtual machines are running, and then log on to **20775A-LON-DEV** as **Admin** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

2.  Using File Explorer, navigate to **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab01**, right-click **Setup.cmd**, and then click **Run as administrator**.

3.  In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.

4.  Close File Explorer.

#### Task 1: Create an HDInsight cluster and run a word count MapReduce job

1.  On the **Start** menu, type **Windows PowerShell ISE**, and then press Enter.

2.  In Windows PowerShell ISE, on the **File** menu, click **Open**.

3.  In the **Open** dialog box, browse to **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab01**, click **Create-and-Run-WC.ps1**, and then click **Open**.

4.  On the **File** menu, click **Run**.

5.  Follow the instructions given in the PowerShell window.

6.  When the cluster has been created, press Enter to run the word count MapReduce example.

    >**Note**: If the word count MapReduce fails, re-run the code from line 95 onwards.

#### Task 2: Run a YARN job

1.  On the Start menu, type **Command Prompt**, and then press Enter.

2.  At the command prompt, type **putty**, and then press Enter.

3.  In the **Putty Configuration** dialog box, in the **Host Name (or IP address)** box, enter the host name. The host name can be found in the PowerShell output from the previous exercise, for example ***your_cluster_name*-ssh.azurehdinsight.net**.

4.  Under **Connection type**, click **SSH**, and click **Open**.

5.  In the **PuTTY Security Alert** dialog box, warning that the host certificate cannot be verified, click **Yes**.

6.  At the **login as** prompt, type **sshadmin**, and then press Enter.

7.  At the **password** prompt, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then press Enter.

8.  In the SSH console, enter the following commands to find the current Hadoop version:
    ````
    cd ..

    cd ..

    cd usr/hdp

    ls
    ````

9.  In the SSH console, enter the following command to view the unsolved Sudoku puzzle. Replace **\<currentHadoopversion\>** with the version number listed from the previous step:
    ````
    cat /usr/hdp/<currentHadoopversion>/hadoop/src/hadoop-mapreduce-project/hadoop-mapreduce-examples/src/main/java/org/apache/hadoop/examples/dancing/puzzle1.dta
    ````

10. In the SSH console, enter the following command to solve the Sudoku puzzle. Replace **\<currentHadoopversion\>** with the version number listed as per the previous step:
    ````
    yarn jar /usr/hdp/current/hadoop-mapreduce-client/hadoop-mapreduce-examples.jar sudoku /usr/hdp/<currentHadoopversion>/hadoop/src/hadoop-mapreduce-project/hadoop-mapreduce-examples/src/main/java/org/apache/hadoop/examples/dancing/puzzle1.dta
    ````

11. Close PuTTY.

12. In the **PuTTY Exit Confirmation** dialog box, click **OK**.

13. Close the Command Prompt.

#### Task 3: Delete the resource group

1.  In Windows PowerShell ISE, on the **File** menu, click **Open**.

2.  In the **Open** dialog box, browse to **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab01**, click **DeleteRG.ps1**, and then click **Open**.

3.  On the **File** menu, click **Run**.

4.  In the **Confirm** dialog box, click **Yes**.

    The deletion process can take a few minutes, please wait until the process is complete.

5.  Close Windows PowerShell ISE.

**Results**: You'll have set up an HDInsight cluster and run two jobs on
it.

---

©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
