# Module 2: Deploying HDInsight Clusters

- [Module 2: Deploying HDInsight Clusters](#module-2-deploying-hdinsight-clusters)
    - [Demo 1: Creating and deleting HDInsight clusters by using the Azure Portal](#demo-1-creating-and-deleting-hdinsight-clusters-by-using-the-azure-portal)
        - [Scenario](#scenario)
        - [Create an HDInsight cluster by using the Azure Portal](#create-an-hdinsight-cluster-by-using-the-azure-portal)
        - [Delete the HDInsight cluster and storage account](#delete-the-hdinsight-cluster-and-storage-account)
    - [Demo 2: Using PowerShell to create and delete HDInsight clusters](#demo-2-using-powershell-to-create-and-delete-hdinsight-clusters)
        - [Scenario](#scenario-1)
        - [Preparation](#preparation)
        - [Create an HDInsight cluster by using Azure PowerShell](#create-an-hdinsight-cluster-by-using-azure-powershell)
        - [Delete a cluster by using Azure PowerShell](#delete-a-cluster-by-using-azure-powershell)

## Demo 1: Creating and deleting HDInsight clusters by using the Azure Portal

### Scenario

In this demonstration, you will see how to:
-  Create an HDInsight cluster by using the Azure Portal.
-  Delete the HDInsight cluster and storage account.

### Create an HDInsight cluster by using the Azure Portal

1.  On the **20775A-LON-DEV** virtual machine, on the Start menu, start to type **Internet Explorer**, and then click **Internet Explorer**.
2.  In the address bar, type **http://azure.microsoft.com**, click **Portal**, and then sign in using the Microsoft account that is associated with your Microsoft Learning Azure Pass subscription.
3.  In the Azure Portal, click **All resources**, and then verify that there are no existing HDInsight clusters in your subscription. 
4.  In the Azure Portal, in the left pane, click **+ Create a resource**.
5.  Click **Analytics**, and then click **HDInsight**.
6.  On the **HDInsight** blade, click **Custom (size, settings, apps)**.
7.  On the **Basics** blade, type the following details, and then click **Cluster type**:
    -  **Cluster name**: \<*your name\>\<date*\>hdi
    -  **Subscription**: your subscription
8.  On the **Cluster configuration** blade, enter the following details, and then click **Select**:
    -  **Cluster type**: Hadoop
    -  **Operating system**: Linux
    -  **Version**: Hadoop 2.7.3 (HDI 3.6)
9.  On the **Basics** blade, enter the following details, and then click **Next**:
    -  **Cluster login username**: hadmin
    -  **Cluster login password**: Pa55w.rdPa55w.rd
    -  **Secure Shell (SSH) username**: sadmin
    -  **Use same password as cluster login**: clear
    -  **SSH authentication type**: PASSWORD
    -  **SSH password**: Pa55w.rd
    -  **Resource group (Create new)**: hadooprg
    -  **Location**: Select your region
10. On the **Security + networking** blade, click **Next**.
11. On the **Storage** blade, under **Select a Storage account**, click **Create new**.
12. In the **Create a new Storage account** box, type **\<*your name\>\<date*\>sa**; point out that this name must be globally unique.
13. In the **Default container** box, replace the suggested name with the name of your cluster (for example, **\<*your name\>\<date*\>hdi**).
14. Leave all other settings at their defaults, and then click **Next**.
15. On the **Applications (optional)** blade, click **Next**.
16. On the **Cluster size** blade, in the **Number of Worker nodes** box, type **1**.
17. Click **Worker node size**.
18. On the **Choose your node size** blade, click **View all**, click **A3 General Purpose**, and then click **Select**.
19. Click **Head node size**.
20. On the **Choose your node size** blade, click **View all**, click **A3 General Purpose**, and then click **Select**.
21. On the **Cluster size** blade, click **Next**.
22. On the **Script Actions (optional)** blade, click **Next**.
23. On the **Cluster summary** blade, point out the estimated cost per hour of this cluster. Remind students that, to avoid using up their Azure Pass allowance, it is important that they remove clusters when they are not using them.
24. On the **Cluster summary** blade, click **Create**.
25. Wait for the cluster to be provisioned before proceeding with the demonstration. This may take 15–20 minutes
26. Click **All resources**, click **\<*your name\>\<date*\>hdi**, and then show the status as **Running**.
27. On the **\<*your name\>\<date*\>hdi** blade, under **Settings**, click **Properties**, and then point out the detailed properties of the cluster.
28. On the **\<*your name\>\<date*\>hdi** blade, under **Settings**, click **Cluster size**, and then point out that you can dynamically scale the number of cluster nodes to meet processing demand.
29. On the **\<*your name\>\<date*\>hdi** blade, click **Overview**.
30. In the **Cluster dashboards** section, click **Ambari home**.
31. In the **Windows Security** dialog box, log in as **hadmin** with a password of **Pa55w.rdPa55w.rd**.
32. Explore the dashboard for the cluster. Explain that the dashboard is an Ambari web application in which you can view and configure settings for the Hadoop services running in the cluster. 
33. When you are finished, close the dashboard tab, and return to the Azure Portal tab.

### Delete the HDInsight cluster and storage account

1.  In the Azure Portal, click **Resource groups**. 
2.  On the **Resource groups** blade, right-click **hadooprg**, and then click **Delete resource group**. 
3.  On the **Are you sure you want to delete "hadooprg"?** blade, type **hadooprg**, and then click **Delete**.
4.  Wait for your resource group to be deleted, click **All resources**, and then verify that the cluster, and the storage account that was created with your cluster, have both been removed. 
5.  Close the browser.

>**Note**: As soon as an HDInsight cluster is running, the credit in your Azure subscription will start to be charged. The free trial subscription includes a credit limit of approximately **USD100** (or local equivalent), which you can spend over a period of 30 days. This is enough to complete the labs in this course, providing that clusters are deleted when they are not in use. If you decide not to complete this lab, follow the instructions in the last exercise of the lab to delete your cluster and avoid using your Azure credit unnecessarily.

## Demo 2: Using PowerShell to create and delete HDInsight clusters

### Scenario

In this demonstration, you will see how to:
-  Create an HDInsight cluster by using Azure PowerShell.
-  Delete a cluster by using Azure PowerShell.

### Preparation

Before you can perform the demonstration, run the **E:\Demofiles\Mod02\Setup.cmd** file.

### Create an HDInsight cluster by using Azure PowerShell

1.  Click **Start**, type **PowerShell**, right-click **Windows PowerShell ISE**, and then click **Run as administrator**.
2.  In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.
3.  In Windows PowerShell ISE, on the **File** menu, click **Open**.
4.  In the **Open** dialog box, navigate to **E:\Demofiles\Mod02**, click **DefineNames.ps1**, and then click **Open**.
5.  In line 1, replace **\<your name\>\<date\>** with your own name, and the current date. Explain that this token must be globally unique when added to "store".
6.  In line 2, replace **Azure Pass** with your subscription name.
7.  In line 7, replace the **location** with your current location.
8.  Point out the other names that are being defined as variables.
9.  In the Windows PowerShell ISE, on the toolbar, click **Run Script**.
10. In the **Windows PowerShell ISE** dialog box, click **OK**.
11. In the **Sign in to your account** dialog box, sign in using the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure Pass subscription. 
12. In Windows PowerShell ISE, on the **File** menu, click **Open**.
13. In the **Open** dialog box, navigate to **E:\Demofiles\Mod02**, click **CreateResourceGroupAndStorage.ps1**, and then click **Open**.
14. Point out the Azure PowerShell cmdlets, and their purpose in this script.
15. In Windows PowerShell ISE, on the toolbar, click **Run Script**.
16. In Windows PowerShell ISE, on the **File** menu, click **Open**.
17. In the **Open** dialog box, navigate to **E:\Demofiles\Mod02**, click **CreateCluster.ps1**, and then click **Open**.
18. Point out the Azure PowerShell cmdlets, and their purpose in this script.
19. In the Windows PowerShell ISE, on the toolbar, click **Run Script**.
20. In the **Windows PowerShell credential request** dialog box, in the **Password** box, type **Pa55w.rdPa55w.rd**, and then click **OK**.
21. Explain that this credential request is for the cluster administrator account, and that it requires a long, complex password.
22. In the second **Windows PowerShell credential request** dialog box, in the **Password** box, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then click **OK**.
23. Explain that this credential request is for the sshuser account, and that it does not require such a long, complex password.
24. Wait for the script to complete before proceeding with the demonstration. This may take 15–20 minutes.

### Delete a cluster by using Azure PowerShell

1.  In Windows PowerShell ISE, on the **File** menu, click **Open**.
2.  In the **Open** dialog box, navigate to **E:\Demofiles\Mod02**, click **RemoveClusterAndStorage.ps1**, and then click **Open**.
3.  Point out the Azure PowerShell cmdlets, and their purpose in this script.
4.  In Windows PowerShell ISE, on the toolbar, click **Run Script**.
5.  In the **Confirm** dialog box, click **Yes**.
Wait for the script to complete before proceeding with the demonstration. This may take several minutes.
1.  In Windows PowerShell ISE, on the **File** menu, click **Open**.
2.  In the **Open** dialog box, navigate to **E:\Demofiles\Mod02**, click **RemoveResourceGroup.ps1**, and then click **Open**.
3.  Point out the Azure PowerShell cmdlets, and their purpose in this script.
4.  In Windows PowerShell ISE, on the toolbar, click **Run Script**.
5.  In the **Confirm** dialog box, click **Yes**. Wait for the script to complete before proceeding with the demonstration. This may take several minutes.
6.  Close Windows PowerShell.

>**Note**: As an optional step at the beginning of the demonstration, you could show students the Azure Portal, and confirm that no cluster is currently deployed. You could then show the Azure Portal again after the script has deployed the cluster, and once more after the scripts have removed the cluster and its resources.

---

©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
