# Module 12: Developing Real-time Processing Solutions with Apache Storm

## Demo 1: Monitoring and managing a Storm cluster 

### Scenario

In this demonstration, you will see how to:
-	Start a sample topology.
-	Use the Storm UI.
-	Use Storm commands.

### Preparation

Before starting this demonstration, you should build a Storm cluster. This might take 15-20 minutes to deploy.
1.	Ensure that the **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, and **20775A-LON-DEV** virtual machines are running, and then log on to **20775A-LON-DEV** as **Admin** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.
2.	On the **20775A-LON-DEV** virtual machine, start Internet Explorer®.
3.	In the address bar, type **http://portal.azure.com** and sign in using the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure Learning Pass subscription.
4.	In the **Azure Portal**, click **+ Create a resource**, in the search box, type **HDInsight**, and then press Enter.
5.	In the **Results** list, click **HDInsight**.
6.	On the **HDInsight** blade, click **Create**.
7.	On the **Basics** blade, enter the following values, and then click **Next**:
    -	**Cluster name**: storm\<your initials\>\<ddmmyyyy\> where \<ddmmyyyy\> is the current date
    -	**Subscription**: your subscription
    -	**Cluster type**: enter the following values, and then click Select:
        -	**Cluster type**: Storm
        -	**Operating system**: Linux
        -	**Version**: Storm 1.1.0 (HDI 3.6)
        -	**Cluster tier**: Standard
    -	**Cluster login name**: admin
    -	**Cluster login password**: Pa55w.rd123
    -	**Secure Shell (SSH) username**: sshuser
    -	**Use same password as cluster login**: selected
    -	**Resource Group (Create new)**: rg\<your initials\>\<ddmmyyyy\>
    -	**Location**: your location
8.	On the **Storage Account Settings** blade, under **Select a Storage account**, click **Create new**.
9.	In the **Create a new Storage account** box, enter **sa\<your initials\>\<ddmmyyyy\>**, and then click **Next**.
10.	On the **Cluster summary** blade, in the **Cluster size** section, click **Edit**.
11.	On the **Cluster size** blade, set the **Number of Supervisor nodes** to **2**, and then click **Next**.
12.	On the **Advanced settings** blade, click **Next**. 
13.	On the **Cluster summary** blade, click **Create**.
14.	Wait for the cluster to be created before starting the demo.

### Start a sample topology
The commands in this demo can be copied from **E:\Demofiles\Mod12\StormCmds.txt**.
1.	On the overview blade for your Storm cluster, click **Secure Shell (SSH)**.
2.	In the **Secure Shell (SSH)** blade, copy the **Host name** to the clipboard.
3.	Click **Start**, type **putty**, and then click **PuTTY**.
4.	In the **PuTTY Configuration** dialog box, in the **Host Name (or IP address)** box, paste the host name from the clipboard, and then click **Open**.
5.	In the **PuTTY Security Alert** dialog box, click **Yes**.
6.	In the PuTTY terminal window, log in as **sshuser** with the password **Pa55w.rd123**.
7.	Run the following command to start a bash shell as the superuser:
    ```
    sudo bash
    ```
8.	Run the following command to start the topology running:
    ```
    storm jar /usr/hdp/current/storm-client/contrib/storm-starter/storm-starter-topologies-*.jar org.apache.storm.starter.WordCountTopology wordcount
    ```
9.	After a few minutes, the topology will start running, and can be monitored.

### Use the Storm UI
1.	Switch to the Azure Portal.
2.	On the cluster overview blade, click **Dashboard**.
3.	In the **Windows Security** dialog box, enter the following credentials, and click **OK**:
    -	**User name**: admin
    -	**Password**: Pa55w.rd123
4.	In the Ambari console, in the left menu, click **Storm**.
5.	On the Ambari Storm page, click **Quick Links**, and then click **Storm UI**.
6.	In the **Cluster Summary** section, point out the Storm version, the number of supervisors, the number of used/free/total slots, the number of executors (instances of a component), and the number of tasks.
7.	In the **Nimbus Summary** section, point out the IP address of each Nimbus node, and which node is currently Leader, and the uptime.
8.	In the **Topology Summary** section, point out the topology name, its status, the uptime, the number of workers/executors/tasks, the replication count, and assigned memory.
9.	In the **Supervisor Summary** section, point out the IP address of each Supervisor node, the uptime, the number of used/available/total slots, and the used memory.
10.	In the **Nimbus Configuration** section, point out the configuration information, and show that this is very detailed and continues over several pages.
11.	In the **Topology Summary** section, click **wordcount** to open a new page focused on the topology.
12.	In the **Topology actions** section, click **Deactivate**.
13.	In the **Message from webpage** dialog box, click **OK**.
Explain that the topology has now been paused.
14.	In the **Topology actions** section, click Activate.
15.	In the **Message from webpage** dialog box, click **OK**.
Explain that the topology has now been resumed.
16.	In the **Topology actions** section, click **Kill**.
17.	In the **Script Prompt** dialog box, type **10**, and then click **OK**.
18.	After 10 seconds, the Storm UI page will show a status of **KILLED** for the topology.
19.	Switch to the SSH session.
20.	In the PuTTY terminal window, run the following command to start the topology:
    ```
    storm jar /usr/hdp/current/storm-client/contrib/storm-starter/storm-starter-topologies-*.jar org.apache.storm.starter.WordCountTopology wordcount
    ```
21.	After a few minutes, the topology will start running again.
22.	Wait a few minutes, and then refresh the Storm UI page. If the page shows an internal error, close the Storm UI tab, and then repeat steps 5 and 11 to reopen it.
23.	Wait until the Storm UI page shows a status of **ACTIVE** for the topology, before proceeding with the demo.

### Use Storm commands
1.	Switch to the SSH session.
2.	In the PuTTY terminal window, run the following command:
    ```
    storm list
    ```
    Point out that the status should be ACTIVE. Also point out the number of tasks and workers, and the uptime. Note the number of workers.
3.	Run the following command:
    ```
    storm monitor wordcount
    ```
    Point out the components.
4.	Run the following command:
    ```
    storm monitor wordcount -m count
    ```
    Point out the real-time statistics.
5.	Press Ctrl+C to stop the monitoring.
6.	Run the following command (replacing \<workers\> with the number of workers you noted in step 2 above + 2; that is, if you noted 3 workers in step 2, use “5” in the following command):
    ```
    storm rebalance wordcount -n <workers>
    ```
7.	Run the following command:
    ```
    storm list
    ```
    Point out that the number of workers has now increased. If the **Status** is **Rebalancing**, run the command again until the **Status** is **Active**.
8.	Run the following command:
    ```
    storm kill wordcount -w 15
    ```
9.	Run the following command:
    ```
    storm list
    ```
10.	Verify that the topology is no longer running.
11.	Close the SSH console.

>**Note:** When you have finished the demo, you should delete the resource group to remove all HDInsight resources.


---

©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.