# Module 3: Authorizing Users to Access Resources

## Lab: Authorize users to access resources

### Exercise 1: Prepare the lab environment

#### Task 1: Create a cluster

1.  Ensure that the **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, and **20775A-LON-DEV** virtual machines are running, and then log on to **20775A-LON-DEV** as **Admin** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

2.  Click **Start**, type **Internet Explorer**, and then click **Internet Explorer**.

3.  In the address bar, type **http://azure.microsoft.com**, click **Portal**, and then sign in using the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure Learning Pass subscription.

4.  In the Azure Portal, click **All resources**, and then verify that there are no existing HDInsight clusters in your subscription.

5.  In the Azure Portal, in the left pane, click **+ Create a resource**.

6.  Click **Analytics**, and then click **HDInsight**.

7.  On the **HDInsight** blade, click **Custom (size, settings,apps)**.

8.  On the **Basics** blade, enter the following details, and then click **Cluster type**:

    -   **Cluster name**: \<*your name\>\<date*\>mod03hdi

    -   **Subscription**: *Your subscription*

9.  On the **Cluster configuration** blade, enter the following details, and then click **Select**:

    -   **Cluster type**: Hadoop

    -   **Operating system**: Linux

    -   **Version**: Hadoop 2.7.3 (HDI 3.6)

10. On the **Basics** blade, enter the following details, and then click **Next**:

    -   **Cluster login username**: hadmin

    -   **Cluster login password**: Pa55w.rd123

    -   **Secure Shell (SSH) username**: sadmin

    -   **Use same password as cluster login**: selected

    -   **Resource group (Create new)**: mod03rg

    -   **Location**: Select your region

11. On the **Security + networking** blade, click **Next**.

12. On the **Storage** blade, under **Select a Storage account**, click **Create new**.

13. In the **Create a new Storage account** box, type **\<*your name\>\<date*\>mod03sa**; point out that this name must be globally unique.

14. In the **Default container** box, replace the suggested name with the name of your cluster (for example, **\<*your name\>\<date*\>mod03ctr**).

15. Leave all other settings at their defaults, and then click **Next**.

16. On the **Applications (optional)** blade, click **Next**.

17. On the **Cluster size** blade, in the **Number of Worker nodes** box, type **1**.

18. Click **Worker node size**.

19. On the **Choose your node size** blade, click **View all**, click **A3 General Purpose**, and then click **Select**.

20. Click **Head node size**.

21. On the **Choose your node size** blade, click **View all**, click **A3 General Purpose**, and then click **Select**.

22. On the **Cluster size** blade, click **Next**.

23. On the **Script actions** blade, click **Next**.

24. On the **Cluster summary** blade, click **Create**.

25. The deployment might take 20-30 minutes to complete. Wait for the cluster to be provisioned.

26. In the Azure Portal, click **All resources**, click **\<*your name\>\<date*\>mod03hdi**, and then ensure the **Status** shows as **Running**.

#### Task 2: Install bash

1.  Click **Start**, type **Services**, and then press Enter.

2.  Right-click **Windows Update**, and then click **Properties**.

3.  In the **Windows Updated Properties (Local Computer)** dialog box, in the **Startup type** list, click **Manual**, and then click **Apply**.

4.  Click **Start**, and then click **Settings**.

5.  In Windows Settings, click **Update & security**, and then click **For developers**.

6.  Under **Use developer features**, click **Developer mode**.

7.  In the **Use developer features** dialog box, click **Yes**.

8.  Wait until the **Developer Package** has been installed.

9.  Close the Settings window.

10. In the **Windows Updated Properties (Local Computer)** dialog box, in the **Startup type** list, click **Disabled**, and then click **OK**.

11. If the **Windows Update** service is running, right-click **Windows Update**, and then click **Stop**.

12. Close the Services window.

13. Right-click **Start**, and then click **Control Panel**.

14. Click **Programs**, and then click **Turn Windows Features on or off**.

15. In the **Windows Features** dialog box, select the **Windows Subsystem for Linux (Beta)** check box, and click **OK**.

16. In the **Windows Features** dialog box, click **Restart now**.

17. The **20775A-LON-DEV** virtual machine will restart and update with the new feature; this process might take several minutes.

18. Log in to the **20775A-LON-DEV** virtual machine as **Admin** with a password of **Pa55w.rd**.

19. Open a command prompt, type **bash**, and then press Enter.

20. As this is the first use, type **Y**, and press Enter. Ubuntu for Windows will now download - this process might take several minutes.

21. At the command prompt, type **root**, and then press Enter.

22. At the command prompt, type **exit**, and then press Enter.

23. Close the command prompt.

#### Task 3: Install Mozilla Firefox

1.  In Internet Explorer, open a new tab, in the address bar, type **http://www.mozilla.org**, press Enter, and then click **Download Firefox**.

2.  In the **Internet Explorer** message box, click **Run**.

3.  In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.

4.  In the **Enter you email** dialog box, click **Skip this step**.

7.  Close Firefox.

8.  Close the Mozilla tab in Internet Explorer.

**Results**: At the end of this exercise, you will have prepared a cluster environment, ready for management.

### Exercise 2: Manage a non-domain joined cluster

#### Task 1: Manage cluster resources using the Ambari dashboard

1.  On the **20775A-LON-DEV** virtual machine, ensure that you are logged in as **Admin**.

2.  In the Azure Portal, click **All resources**, click **\<*your name\>\<date*\>mod03hdi**, and then ensure the **Status** shows as **Running**.

3.  On the **\<*your name\>\<date*\>mod03hdi** blade, under **Cluster dashboards**, click **Ambari home**.

4.  In the **Windows Security** dialog box, in the **User name** box, type **hadmin**, and in the **Password** box, type **Pa55w.rd123**, and then click **OK**.

5.  On the **Dashboard**, on the **Metrics** tab, position the cursor over **HDFS Disk Usage**, and note that the graphic changes to a text display.

6.  Click **Cluster Load**, and note that you get a graph of load over time; click **OK** to close the graph.

7.  Click the **Heatmaps** tab, click the **Select Metric** drop-down arrow, point to **Host**, and then click **Host Memory Used %**; note the memory usage on the default rack.

8.  On the menu bar, point to **Services**, and then click **HDFS**.

9.  In the **Summary** section, click **Standby NameNode**.

10. Next to **Oozie Server**, click **Started**, and then click **Stop**.

11. In the **Confirmation** dialog box, click **OK**.

12. In the **1 Background Operation Running** dialog box, note the progress of the background processes required to stop the Oozie Server component, and then click **OK**.

13. Next to **Hive Metastore**, click **Started**, and then click **Stop**.

14. In the **Confirmation** dialog box, click **OK**.

15. In the **1 Background Operation Running** dialog box, wait until all the background processes have completed and stopped the Hive Metastore component, and then click **OK**.

16. On the top-left corner of the Ambari menu bar, new critical warnings should now appear (these may take a few minutes to appear); click this alert.

17. In the **2 Critical or Warning Alerts** dialog box, note the details of the alert, and then click **OK**.

18. Next to **Hive Metastore**, click **Stopped**, and then click **Start**.

19. In the **Confirmation** dialog box, click **OK**.

20. In the **1 Background Operation Running** dialog box, wait until the background processes required to start the Hive Metastore have completed, and then click **OK**.

21. Next to **Oozie Server**, click **Stopped**, and then click **Start**.

22. In the **Confirmation** dialog box, click **OK**.

23. In the **1 Background Operation Running** dialog box, wait until the background processes required to start the Oozie Server have completed, and then click **OK**.

24. On the Ambari menu bar, click **Alerts**.

25. In the **Actions** drop-down list, click **Manage Alert Groups**.

26. In the **Manage Alert Groups** dialog box, click **Create Alert Group** (the left-hand **+**).

27. In the **Create Alert Group** dialog box, in the **Name** box, type **My Alerts**, and then click **OK**.

28. With **My Alerts** selected, click **Add alert definitions to selected Alert Group** (the right-hand **+**).

29. In the **Select Alert Group Definitions** dialog box, in the **Service** drop-down list, click **HDFS**.

30. In the **Component** drop-down list, click **NameNode**.

31. Select the top check box, and then click **OK**.

32. In the **Manage Alert Groups** dialog box, click **Save**.

33. In the **Alerts Groups processing results** dialog box, click **OK**.

#### Task 2: Create an SSH tunnel using bash

1.  Click **Start**, type **bash**, and then press Enter.

2.  At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter to open an SSH connection to your HDInsight cluster, replacing **\<clustername\>** with the cluster name you created earlier:
    ````
    ssh sadmin@<clustername>-ssh.azurehdinsight.net -C2qTnNf -D 9876
    ````

    > **Note**: This command can be copied from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab03\\SshCmd.txt** and pasted by right-clicking the SSH console window.

    This command uses the following options:

    -   **C** - Compress all data

    -   **2** - Force SSH to try protocol version 2 only

    -   **q** - Quiet mode

    -   **T** - Disable pseudo-tty allocation, because only port forwarding is being used

    -   **n** - Prevent reading of STDIN, because only port forwarding is being used

    -   **N** - Do not execute a remote command, because only port forwarding is being used

    -   **f** - Run in the background

    -   **D 9876** - Connect over port 9876

3.  At the command prompt, type **yes**, and then press Enter.

4.  At the command prompt, type **Pa55w.rd123**, and then press Enter.

#### Task 3: Verify SSH tunnel operation

1.  Click **Start**, type **firefox**, and then click **Firefox**.

2.  In the **Default Browser** dialog box, clear the **Always perform this check when starting Firefox** check box, and then click **Not now**.

3.  In Firefox, click the hamburger menu in the right-hand top corner, and then click **Options**.

4.  On the **Options** tab, under **Network Settings**, click **Settings**.

5.  On the **Network** tab, click **Settings**.

6.  In the **Connection Settings** dialog box, click **Manual proxy configuration**, and then enter the following details:

    -   **SOCKS Host**: localhost

    -   **Port**: 9876

7.  Select the **Proxy DNS when using SOCKS v5** check box, and then click **OK**.

8.  In Firefox, in the address box, type **http://www.whatismyip.com/**, and press Enter.

9.  If the **Windows Security Alert** dialog box appears, click **Allow access**.

10. Note that the IP address now displayed is the IP address of the Head node in the Microsoft datacenter.

#### Task 4: Use an SSH tunnel to manage a cluster from the Name node UI

1.  On the Windows taskbar, click **File Explorer**, and navigate to **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab03**.

2.  Rename **NameNode.ps1.txt** to **NameNode.ps1**.

3.  In the **Rename** dialog box, click **Yes**.

4.  Click **Start**, type **PowerShell**, right-click **Windows PowerShell ISE**, and then click **Run as administrator**.

5.  In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.

6.  In Windows PowerShell ISE, on the **File** menu, click **Open**.

7.  In the **Open** dialog box, navigate to **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab03**, click **NameNode.ps1**, and then click **Open**.

8.  Replace the two occurrences of **\<cluster name\>** with the name of your cluster:
    ````
    $creds=Get-Credential -Message "Enter Cluster user credentials (HTTP)" -UserName "hadmin"
    $resp = Invoke-WebRequest -Uri "https://<cluster name>.azurehdinsight.net/api/v1/clusters/<cluster name>/hosts" `
            -Credential $creds
        $respObj = ConvertFrom-Json $resp.Content
        $respObj.items.Hosts.host_name
    ````

9.  On the toolbar, click **Run Script**.

10. In the **Windows PowerShell ISE** dialog box, click **OK**.

11. In the **Windows PowerShell credential request** dialog box, in the **Password** box, type **Pa55w.rd123**, and then click **OK**.

12. In the results list, use the mouse to select the complete line with the header node host name that starts with **hn1**, right-click, and then click **Copy**.

13. In Firefox, right-click in the address box, and then click **Paste**.

14. In the address box, click at the end of the pasted URL, and then type **:8088**, so that the final URL is of the form:
    ````
    http://hn1-demo123.3zwd1t2aw03elbtsm1pkluf5kf.zx.internal.cloudapp.net:8088
    ````

15. Press Enter.

16. In the Name node UI, in the left-hand **Cluster** menu, click **About**.

17. Note the overview information about the cluster, including memory usage.

18. In the Name node UI, in the left-hand **Cluster** menu, click **Nodes**.

19. Note the information about the single node in the cluster, including the node's private address.

20. In the Name node UI, in the left-hand **Cluster** menu, click **Applications**.

21. Note that there is a single Hive application running.

22. In the Name node UI, expand the left-hand **Tools** menu, and then click **Local logs**.

23. Note that you can download several log files; click **Go back one page**.

24. In the Name node UI, in the left-hand **Tools** menu, click **Server metrics**.

25. Scroll through the JSON display, note that various metrics are reported, and that this data can also be saved.

26. Click **Go back one page**.

27. Close Firefox, and Windows PowerShell ISE.

28. In the bash prompt, type **exit**, and press Enter.

#### Task 5: Remove cluster

1.  In the Microsoft Azure Portal, in the left-hand menu, click **Resource groups**.

2.  On the **Resource groups** blade, right-click **mod03rg**, and then click **Delete resource group**.

3.  On the **Are you sure you want to delete "mod03rg"?** blade, in the **TYPE THE RESOURCE GROUP NAME** box, type  **mod03rg**, and then click **Delete**.

4.  Wait for your resource group to be deleted, and then click **All resources**. Verify that the cluster, and the storage account that was created with your cluster, have both been removed.

**Results**: At completing this exercise, you will have managed a non-domain joined cluster using the Ambari console, and through the endpoint UI by using an SSH tunnel.

---

©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
