# Module 3: Deploying HDInsight Clusters

- [Module 3: Deploying HDInsight Clusters](#module-3-deploying-hdinsight-clusters)
    - [Demo 1: Authorizing user access to cluster objects](#demo-1-authorizing-user-access-to-cluster-objects)
        - [Scenario](#scenario)
        - [Preparation](#preparation)
        - [Access cluster resources using the Ambari dashboard](#access-cluster-resources-using-the-ambari-dashboard)
        - [Access cluster resources using an SSH tunnel](#access-cluster-resources-using-an-ssh-tunnel)
        - [Use an SSH tunnel to access the Name node UI](#use-an-ssh-tunnel-to-access-the-name-node-ui)

## Demo 1: Authorizing user access to cluster objects

### Scenario

In this demonstration, you will see how to:
-  Access cluster resources using the Ambari dashboard.
-  Access cluster resources using an SSH tunnel.
-  Use an SSH tunnel to access the Name node UI.

### Preparation

Before starting this demonstration, you will need to perform the following steps:

**Create demo cluster:**

1.  Ensure that the **MT17B-WS2016-NAT** and **20775A-LON-DEV** virtual machines are running, and then log on to **20775A-LON-DEV** as **Admin** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.
2.  On the **20775A-LON-DEV** virtual machine, on the Start menu, start to type **Internet Explorer**, and then click **Internet Explorer**.
3.  In the address bar, type **http://azure.microsoft.com**, click **Portal**, and then sign in using the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure Learning Pass subscription.
4.  In the Azure Portal, click **All resources**, and then verify that there are no existing HDInsight clusters in your subscription.
5.  In the Azure Portal, in the left pane, click **+ Create a resource**.
6.  Click **Analytics**, and then click **HDInsight**.
7.  On the **HDInsight** blade, click **Custom (size, settings,apps)**.
8.  On the **Basics** blade, type the following details, and then click **Cluster type**:
    -  **Cluster name**: \<*your name\>\<date*\>hdi
    -  **Subscription**: your Azure subscription
9.  On the **Cluster configuration** blade, enter the following details, and then click **Select**:
    -  **Cluster type**: Hadoop
    -  **Operating system**: Linux
    -  **Version**: Hadoop 2.7.3 (HDI 3.6)
10. On the **Basics** blade, enter the following details, and then click **Next**:
    -  **Cluster login username**: hadmin
    -  **Cluster login password**: Pa55w.rdPa55w.rd
    -  **Secure Shell (SSH) username**: sadmin
    -  **Use same password as cluster login**: clear
    -  **SSH authentication type**: PASSWORD
    -  **SSH password**: Pa55w.rd
    -  **Resource group (Create new)**: hadooprg
    -  **Location**: Select your region
11. On the **Security + networking** blade, click **Next**.
12. On the **Storage** blade, under **Select a Storage account**, click **Create new**.
13. In the **Create a new Storage account** box, type **\<*your name\>\<date*\>sa**; this name must be globally unique.
14. In the **Default container** box, replace the suggested name with the name of your cluster (for example, **\<*your name\>\<date*\>hdi**).
15. Leave all other settings at their defaults, and then click **Next**.
16. On the **Applications** blade, click **Next**.
17. On the **Cluster size** blade, in the **Number of Worker nodes** box, type **1**.
18. Click **Worker node size**.
19. On the **Choose your node size** blade, click **View all**, click **A3 General Purpose**, and then click **Select**.
20. Click **Head node size**.
21. On the **Choose your node size** blade, click **View all**, click **A3 General Purpose**, and then click **Select**.
22. On the **Cluster size** blade, click **Next**.
23. On the **Script actions** blade, click **Next**.
24. On the **Cluster summary** blade, click **Create**.
25. Wait for the cluster to be provisioned.
26. Click **All resources**, and then click **\<*your name\>\<date*\>hdi**.
27. On the **HDInsight Cluster** blade, check that the **Status** shows as **Running**.

**Install bash:**
1.  Click **Start**, type **Services**, and then press Enter.
2.  Right-click **Windows Update**, and then click **Properties**.
3.  In the **Windows Updated Properties (Local Computer)** dialog box, in the **Startup type** list, click **Manual**, and then click **Apply**.
4.  Click **Start**, and then click **Settings**.
5.  In Windows Settings, click **Update & security**, and then click **For developers**.
6.  Under **Use developer features**, click **Developer mode**.
7.  In the **Use developer features** dialog box, click **Yes**.
8.  Wait until the Developer Package has been installed.
9.  Close Settings.
10. In the **Windows Updated Properties (Local Computer)** dialog box, in the **Startup type** list, click **Disabled**, and then click **OK**.
11. If the Windows Update service is running, right-click **Windows Update**, and then click **Stop**.
12. Close Services.
13. Right-click **Start**, and then click **Control Panel**.
14. Click **Programs**, and then click **Turn Windows Features on or off**. 
15. In the **Windows Features** dialog box, select the **Windows Subsystem for Linux (Beta)** check box, and click **OK**.
16. In the **Windows Features** dialog box, click **Restart now**.
17. The **20775A-LON-DEV** virtual machine will restart and update with the new feature; this process might take several minutes.
18. Log in to the **20775A-LON-DEV** virtual machine as **Admin** with a password of **Pa55w.rd**.
19. Open a command prompt, type **bash**, and then press Enter.
20. As this is the first use, type **Y**, and then press Enter; Ubuntu for Windows will now download, a process that might take several minutes.
21. At the command prompt, type **root**, and then press Enter.
22. At the command prompt, type **exit**, and then press Enter.
23. Close the command prompt.

**Install Mozilla Firefox:**
1.  Switch to Internet Explorer and create a new tab. In the address bar, type **http://www.mozilla.org**, and then click **Download Firefox**.
2.  In the **Internet Explorer** dialog box, click **Run**.
3.  In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.
4.  In the **Enter your email** dialog box, click **Skip this step**.
5.  In the **Try Firefox with the bookmarks, history and passwords from another browser** massage, click **No Thanks**.
6.  Close Firefox.
7.  In the **Confirm close** dialog box, click **Close tabs**.
8.  Close the Mozilla tab in Internet Explorer.
9.  On the desktop, double-click **FireFox**.
10. In the **Default Browser** dialog box, clear the **Always perform this check when starting Firefox** check box, and click **Not now**.
11. Close Firefox.

**Configure files:**

-  In the **E:\Demofiles\Mod03** folder, rename **NameNode.ps1.txt** to **NameNode.ps1**.

### Access cluster resources using the Ambari dashboard

1.  On the **20775A-LON-DEV** virtual machine, ensure that you are logged in as **Admin**.
2.  In Internet Explorer, in the Microsoft Azure Portal, click **All resources**, and then click **\<*your name\>\<date*\>hdi**.
3.  On the **\<*your name\>\<date*\>hdi** blade, check that the **Status** shows as **Running**.
4.  On the **\<*your name\>\<date*\>hdi** blade, in the **Cluster dashboards** section, click **Ambari home**.
5.  In the **Windows Security** dialog box, in the **User name** box, type **hadmin**, and in the **Password** box, type **Pa55w.rdPa55w.rd**, and then click **OK**.
6.  On the **Dashboard** menu bar, point out the wizards that provide summary information of the cluster.
7.  Click the **Heatmaps** tab, and point out that you can change the Heatmap metric that is displayed.
8.  Click the **Select Metric** drop-down arrow, point to **HDFS**, and then click **HDFS Space Utilization**; explain that this Heatmap shows the space usage in the worker nodes.
9.  On the menu bar, click **Services**, and then, in the left-hand menu, click **HDFS**.
10. In the **Summary** section, click **Active NameNode**.
11. Point out the list of **Components** that are running on the **NameNode**, such as **App Timeline Server**, **HiveServer2**, and **Oozie Server**. 
12. Next to **HiveServer2**, click **Started**, and then click **Stop**. 
13. In the **Confirmation** dialog box, click **OK**.
14. In the **1 Background Operation Running** dialog box, point out the progress of the background processes required to stop the HiveServer2 component, and then click **OK**.
15. After the Hive Server component is stopped, after a couple of minutes, a new critical warning appears on the top-left corner of the Ambari menu bar; click this alert.
16. In the **1 Critical or Warning Alerts** dialog box, point out the details of the alert, and then click **OK**.
17. Next to **HiveServer2**, click **Stopped**, and then click **Start**. 
18. In the **Confirmation** dialog box, click **OK**.
19. In the **1 Background Operation Running** dialog box, point out the progress of the background processes required to start the HiveServer2 component, and then click **OK**.
Explain that the Ambari UI enables cluster admin to manage alerts.
19. On the Ambari menu bar, click **Alerts**, click **Actions**, and in the list, click **Manage Alert Groups**.
20. In the **Manage Alert Groups** dialog box, click **Create Alert Group** (the left hand +).
21. In the **Create Alert Group** dialog box, in the **Name** box, type **My Alerts**, and then click **OK**.
Explain that you are going to create a custom alert group for only HDFS service alerts, which is associated only with the NameNode component.
22. With **My Alerts** selected, click **Add alert definitions to selected Alert Group** (the right-hand +).
23. In the **Select Alert Group Definitions** dialog box, click **Service**, click **HDFS**.
24. Click **Component**, click **NameNode**, and then select the top check box, and then click **OK**. 
25. In the **Manage Alert Groups** dialog box, click **Save**.
26. In the **Alert Groups processing results** dialog box, click **OK**.

### Access cluster resources using an SSH tunnel

1.  Click **Start**, type **bash**, and then press Enter. 
2.  At the command prompt, type the following command to open an SSH connection to your HDInsight cluster, replacing **\<clustername\>** with the cluster name you created earlier:
    ````
    ssh sadmin@<clustername>-ssh.azurehdinsight.net -C2qTnNf -D 9876
    ````

    >**Note**: This command can be copied from **E:\\Demofiles\\Mod03\\Demo1Cmd.txt** and pasted by right-clicking the SSH console window.

    Explain that this command uses the following options:
    -  **C** - Compress all data
    -  **2** - Force SSH to try protocol version 2 only
    -  **q** - Quiet mode
    -  **T** - Disable pseudo-tty allocation, because only port forwarding is being used
    -  **n** - Prevent reading of STDIN, because only port forwarding is being used
    -  **N** - Do not execute a remote command, because only port forwarding is being used
    -  **f** - Run in the background
    -  **-D 9876** - Specifies to connect over port 9876
3.  Press Enter.
4.  At the command prompt, type **yes**, and then press Enter.
5.  At the command prompt, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then press Enter.
6.  Explain that, with SSH in place, whatever traffic is sent to port 9876 on the **20775A-LON-DEV** virtual machine will be routed to the cluster head node, and will appear to have originated on that node.
Explain that you will now verify that the SSH tunnel is working correctly; also explain that you are using Mozilla Firefox for this test because the Internet Explorer and Microsoft Edge browsers use Windows proxy settings—the Windows proxy does not currently support SOCKS v5, which is required for the following verification steps.
7.  Click **Start**, type **firefox**, and then click **Firefox**.
8.  In Firefox, click the hamburger menu in the right-hand top corner, and then click **Options**.
9.  On the **Options** page, under **Network Settings**, click **Settings**.
10. In the **Connection Settings** dialog box, click **Manual proxy configuration**, and then enter the following details:
    -  **SOCKS Host**: localhost
    -  **Port**: 9876
    -  **SOCKS v5**: selected
11. Select the **Proxy DNS when using SOCKS v5** check box, and then click **OK**.
12. In the address box, type **http://www.whatismyip.com/**, and then press Enter.
    Point out that the IP address now displayed is the IP address of the Head node in the Microsoft datacenter, and is not the IP address of your local computer; this confirms that requests from the browser are being routed through the Head node of the cluster.
13. In the **Windows Security Alert** dialog box, click **Allow access**.

### Use an SSH tunnel to access the Name node UI

1.  Explain that, by default, the Name node UI for the HDInsight cluster is not accessible, but because you have created an SSH tunnel, you should be able to access this UI.
2.  Click **Start**, type **PowerShell**, right-click **Windows PowerShell ISE**, and then click **Run as administrator**.
3.  In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.
4.  In Windows PowerShell ISE, on the **File** menu, click **Open**.
5.  In the **Open** dialog box, navigate to **E:\\Demofiles\\Mod03**, click **NameNode.ps1**, and then click **Open**.
6.  Replace the two occurrences of **\<cluster name\>** with the name of your cluster:
    ````
    $creds = Get-Credential -Message "Enter Cluster user credentials (HTTP)" -UserName "hadmin"
    $resp = Invoke-WebRequest -Uri "https://<cluster name>.azurehdinsight.net/api/v1/clusters/<cluster name>/hosts" `
    -Credential $creds
    $respObj = ConvertFrom-Json $resp.Content
    $respObj.items.Hosts.host_name
    ````
7.  On the toolbar, click **Run Script**.
8.  In the **Windows PowerShell ISE** dialog box, click **OK**.
9.  In the **Windows PowerShell credential request** dialog box, in the **Password** box, type **Pa55w.rdPa55w.rd**, and then click **OK**.
10. In the results, use the mouse to select the header node host name that starts with **hn1** from the list, right-click, and then click **Copy**.
11. Switch to Mozilla Firefox, right-click in the address box, and then click **Paste**.
12. In the address box, click at the end of the pasted URL, and then type **:8088**, so that the final URL is of the form:
    ````
    hn1-demo123.3zwd1t2aw03elbtsm1pkluf5kf.zx.internal.cloudapp.net:8088
    ````
13. Press Enter.
14. Explain that you are now looking at the Name node UI, and that this enables you to view job history, manage jobs with different statuses, and view cluster metrics.
15. Close Mozilla Firefox, and Windows PowerShell ISE.
16. Switch to the bash prompt.
17. At the command prompt, type **exit**, and press Enter.

---

©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
