# Module 5: Troubleshooting HDInsight

## Lab: Troubleshooting HDInsight

### Scenario

The Contoso IT department has a large on-premises IT infrastructure, and are planning to move a lot of this infrastructure into the cloud. The Contoso IT department is keen to understand the big data operational support capabilities, and the support for the monitoring of IT resources, that are available in Azure. Contoso have approached your consulting organization to deliver a Proof of Concept (PoC) project on the setting up of big data Hadoop clusters in Azure and the processes involved in cluster troubleshooting. Contoso also want you to deliver a PoC on how to monitor Azure resources through the OMS.

### Objectives

After completing this lab, you will be able to:

-   Analyze HDInsight logs.

-   Analyze YARN logs.

-   Monitor resources using the OMS.

### Lab Setup

-   **Estimated Time**: 120 minutes

-   **Virtual machine**: 20775A-LON-DEV

-   **Username**: Admin

-   **Password**: Pa55w.rd

## Exercise 1: Analyze HDInsight logs

### Scenario

In the first part of your PoC project on the management of Azure Hadoop clusters, you will locate HDInsight log files, and investigate methods for accessing and analyzing these files, as part of your evaluation of cluster troubleshooting procedures.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Prepare the lab environment

2. Open the SSH connection to the HDInsight cluster

3. Download HDInsight log files

4. View HDInsight log files using Power Query for Excel

#### Task 1: Prepare the lab environment

1.  Ensure that the **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, and **20775A-LON-DEV** virtual machines are running, and then log on to **20775A-LON-DEV** as **Admin** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

2.  Connect to the Azure Portal, and then sign in using the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure Learning Pass subscription.

3.  Create a new HDInsight cluster with the following details:

    -   **Cluster name**: \<*your name*\>\<*date*\>mod05cluster

    -   **Cluster type**: Hadoop

    -   **Operating system**: Linux

    -   **Version**: Hadoop 2.7.3 (HDI 3.6)

    -   **Cluster login username**: hadmin

    -   **Cluster login password**: Pa55w.rd123

    -   **Remote Desktop username**: radmin

    -   **Resource group (Create new)**: mod05rg

    -   **Location**: Select your region

    -   **Storage account (Create new)**: \<*your name*\>\<*date*\>mod05sa

    -   **Default container**: \<*your name*\>\<*date*\>mod05cluster-ctr

    -   **Cluster size**: Number of Worker nodes: 2

    -   **Worker node size**: D3 V2 Optimized

    -   **Head node size**: D3 V2 Optimized

4.  The deployment might take 20-30 minutes to complete. Wait for the cluster to be provisioned and do not continue with this exercise until the **Status** shows as **Running**.

#### Task 2: Open the SSH connection to the HDInsight cluster

In the Azure Portal, locate the SSH host name for your cluster, and then copy this name to the clipboard.

1.  Start a PuTTY session, using the copied cluster name.

2.  When you are prompted, enter **sshuser** and **Pa55w.rd123** as the credentials.

#### Task 3: Download HDInsight log files

> **Note**: All of the following commands can be copied from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab05\\LogFileCmds.txt**.

1.  Run **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab05\\LogDirs.cmd**, this script creates local folders for log files on the **E:** drive.

2.  Switch to the command prompt.

    > **Note**: For the following steps, if the **Command-line SCP/SFTP client** dialog box appears, click **Close program**, wait a minute, and then try the command again. In the command prompt, notice the **Assertion failed** error. For the purpose of this lab, the entire log is not required, therefore as long as the copy has copied some of the log (for example, 85%) this will be sufficient to continue.

3.  At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter (replacing **\<clustername\>**, with the name of your cluster):
    ````
    pscp -pw Pa55w.rd123 -r sshuser@<clustername>-ssh.azurehdinsight.net:/var/log/hadoop/hdfs/* e:/Logfiles/hadoop/
    ````

4.  At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter (replacing **\<clustername\>**, with the name of your cluster):
    ````
    pscp -pw Pa55w.rd123 -r sshuser@<clustername>-ssh.azurehdinsight.net:/var/log/hdinsight-agent/* e:/Logfiles/hdinsight-agent/
    ````

5.  At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter (replacing **\<clustername\>**, with the name of your cluster):
    ````
    pscp -pw Pa55w.rd123 -r sshuser@<clustername>-ssh.azurehdinsight.net:/var/log/syslog e:/Logfiles/syslog/
    ````

6.  At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter (replacing **\<clustername\>**, with the name of your cluster):
    ````
    pscp -pw Pa55w.rd123 -r sshuser@<clustername>-ssh.azurehdinsight.net:/var/log/ambari-agent/* e:/Logfiles/ambari-agent/
    ````

7.  Switch to the PuTTY console, then type the following command, and then press Enter:
    ````
    sudo cp /var/log/ambari-server/ambari-server.log /home/sshuser
    ````

8.  In the PuTTY prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:
    ````
    sudo chmod 775 /home/sshuser/ambari-server.log
    ````

9.  At the PuTTY prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:
    ````
    sudo cp /var/log/hdinsight-startupagent/hdinsight-startupagent.log /home/sshuser
    ````

10. At the PuTTY prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:
    ````
    sudo chmod 775 /home/sshuser/hdinsight-startupagent.log
    ````

11. Switch to the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter (replacing **\<clustername\>**, with the name of your cluster):
    ````
    pscp -pw Pa55w.rd123 sshuser@<clustername>-ssh.azurehdinsight.net:/home/sshuser/ambari-server.log e:/Logfiles/ambari-server/
    ````

12. At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter (replacing **\<clustername\>**, with the name of your cluster):
    ````
    pscp -pw Pa55w.rd123 sshuser@<clustername>-ssh.azurehdinsight.net:/home/sshuser/hdinsight-startupagent.log e:/Logfiles/hdinsight-startupagent/
    ````

13. In **E:\\Logfiles**, verify that there are log files in the following folders:

    -   ambari-agent

    -   ambari-server

    -   hadoop

    -   hdinsight-agent

    -   hdinsight-startupagent

    -   syslog


#### Task 4: View HDInsight log files using Power Query for Excel

1.  In **Excel 2016**, open a new workbook, and then use a new data query to import text data from the **E:\\Logfiles\\hdinsight-startupagent\\hdinsight-startupagent.log** file.

2.  Use the Query Editor to split the imported column, using **-** (hyphen) as the delimiter.

3.  Use the Query Editor to group **Column1.5**, using default options.

4.  Load the queried data into Excel.

5.  Note that most of the messages logged are marked as **INFO**.

6.  Use a new data query to import text data from the **E:\\Logfiles\\syslog\\syslog** file.

7.  Use the Query Editor to split the imported column, using **:** (colon) as the delimiter.

8.  Load the queried data into Excel.

9.  Note that column 5 now contains the component or service name that is reporting an event into the syslog.

10.  Close Microsoft Excel, without saving your changes.

**Results**: At the end of this exercise, you will have used SSH to locate and download a range of log files that are commonly used to help troubleshoot issues in HDInsight clusters. You will also have used Power Query for Excel to start to analyze several of these log files.

## Exercise 2: Analyze YARN log files

## Scenario

In the second part of your PoC project on the management of Azure Hadoop clusters, you will be locating YARN log files, and investigating methods for accessing and analyzing these files, as part of your evaluation of cluster troubleshooting procedures.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Open a second SSH connection

2. View and analyze YARN logs using CLI

3. View and analyze YARN logs using Resource Manager UI

#### Task 1: Open a second SSH connection

In the Azure Portal, locate the SSH host name for your cluster, and then copy this name to the clipboard.

1.  Start a second PuTTY session, using the copied cluster name.

2.  When you are prompted, enter **sshuser** and **Pa55w.rd123** as the credentials.

3.  Arrange the second SSH console side-by-side with the one you opened earlier.

#### Task 2: View and analyze YARN logs using CLI

> **Note**: You can copy all of the following commands from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab05\\YarnCmds.txt**.

1.  In the first SSH console, paste the following YARN command to run the MapReduce WordCount example job (do not press Enter):
    ````
    yarn jar /usr/hdp/current/hadoop-mapreduce-client/hadoop-mapreduce-examples.jar wordcount /example/data/gutenberg/davinci.txt /example/data/davinciwordcount
    ````

2.  In the second SSH console, paste the following command, ready to retrieve the application ID for the above YARN job (but do not press Enter):
    ````
    yarn application -list
    ````

3.  Switch to the first SSH console, and press Enter.

4.  Switch to the second SSH console, and press Enter.

5.  If the results of this command show the **Total number of applications** as **0**, repeat the command until at least one application is reported.

6.  If the MapReduce job completes before you can determine the application ID, use the following command:
    ````
    yarn application -list -appStates FINISHED
    ````

7.  When the **Total number of applications** reports one or more applications, use the mouse to copy the application ID from the console display to the clipboard; this ID will be of the form: *application_1496062917453_0003*.

8.  In the second SSH console, paste the following command, and then press Enter (replacing **\<applicationId\>** with your copied ID):
    ````
    yarn logs -applicationId <applicationId> > wordcount.log
    ````

9.  Switch to the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter (replacing **\<clustername\>**, with the name of your cluster):
    ````
    pscp -pw Pa55w.rd123 sshuser@<clustername>-ssh.azurehdinsight.net:/home/sshuser/wordcount.log e:/Logfiles/yarn/
    ````

10. Verify that **E:\\Logfiles\\yarn** contains the downloaded **wordcount.log** file.

#### Task 3: View and analyze YARN logs using Resource Manager UI

1.  Use the Ambari dashboard to view logs using the Resource Manager UI. If prompted to enter credentials to log into Ambari, use the following:

    - **User name**: hadmin

    - **Password**: Pa55w.rd123

2.  Open the Resource Manager logs and view **hadoop-mapreduce.jobsummary.log**.

3.  Open the **yarn-yarn-resourcemanager-hn\<...\>.log**, and view the log information (you might need to scroll down and right to see it all); note that this is a very detailed log.

4.  Open the Resource Manager UI to view the logs related to the YARN application that you executed in the previous task.

**Results**: At the end of this exercise, you will have used SSH to locate and download a YARN log file, and used the Resource Manager UI as an alternative troubleshooting method.

## Exercise 3: Monitor Azure resources using the OMS

### Scenario

In the final part of your PoC, you will investigate some of the options that are available for monitoring Azure resources by using the OMS.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create an OMS workspace

2. Create a Linux VM and install the OMS agent

3. View OMS data

4. Remove cluster and OMS resources

#### Task 1: Create an OMS workspace

1.  In the Azure Portal, create a new **OMS Workspace**, using the following details:

    -   **OMS Workspace**: \<*your name*\>\<*date*\>mod05oms

    -   **Subscription**: Your subscription

    -   **Resource group (Create new)**: mod05omsrg1

    -   **Location**: Select your region

    -   **Pricing tier**: Per GB

2.  After the deployment has succeeded, create a new **Activity Log Analytics** deployment, linked to your OMS workspace.

3.  After the deployment has succeeded, create a new **Security & Compliance** deployment, linked to select your OMS workspace, ensuring that the **Antimalware Assessment** and **Security and Audit** solutions are selected.

4.  After the deployment has succeeded, verify that the management solutions have been added to your OMS workspace.

#### Task 2: Create a Linux VM and install the OMS agent

1.  In the Azure Portal, in the left pane, create an **Ubuntu Server 14.04 LTS** VM, using the following details:

    -   **Subscription**: Your subscription

    -   **Resource group (Create new)**: mod05omsrg2

    -   **Virtual machine name**: omslinux01

    -   **Region**: Select your region

    -   **Size**: Click **Change size**, remove all filters, click **A1 Basic**, and then click **Select**.

    -   **Authentication type**: Password

    -   **User name**: vadmin

    -   **Password**: Pa55w.rdPa55w.rd

    -   **Confirm password**: Pa55w.rdPa55w.rd

    -   **OS disk type**: Standard HDD

2.  When the deployment has completed, connect this VM to OMS **Log Analytics**, to install the OMS agent and configure it for your OMS workspace.

3.  Wait for the installation to complete, and then verify that the OMS connection status has been updated to **This workspace**.

#### Task 3: View OMS data

1.  In **Log Analytics**, wait for 5-10 minutes until there is summary data displayed for the **Azure Activity Logs**, and **Security and Audit** management solutions; you might need to click **Refresh** (the Antimalware Assessment solution might take several hours to complete an initial assessment).

2.  View the **Azure Activity Logs**, and review the data items presented on the dashboard.

3.  View **Security and Audit**, and review the data items presented on the dashboard.

#### Task 4: Remove cluster and OMS resources

1.  Delete the Linux VM and its resources, by deleting the associated resource group.

2.  Delete the OMS workspace and storage account, by deleting the associated resource group.

3.  Delete the HDInsight cluster and storage account, by deleting the associated resource group.

4.  Verify that all Azure resources have been removed.

**Results**: At the end of this exercise, you will have connected a Linux VM to an OMS workspace, and then used OMS to monitor this example Azure resource.

---

©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
