# Module 5: Troubleshooting HDInsight

- [Module 5: Troubleshooting HDInsight](#module-5-troubleshooting-hdinsight)
    - [Demo 1: Azure Storage Explorer](#demo-1-azure-storage-explorer)
        - [Scenario](#scenario)
        - [Preparation](#preparation)
        - [Open an SSH connection to the head node](#open-an-ssh-connection-to-the-head-node)
        - [Download log files](#download-log-files)
        - [Use Power Query to view HDInsight log files](#use-power-query-to-view-hdinsight-log-files)
    - [Demo 2: Viewing YARN logs](#demo-2-viewing-yarn-logs)
        - [Scenario](#scenario)
        - [Preparation](#preparation)
        - [View YARN logs using the YARN CLI](#view-yarn-logs-using-the-yarn-cli)
        - [View YARN logs using the Resource Manager UI](#view-yarn-logs-using-the-resource-manager-ui)
    - [Demo 3: Enable heap dumps](#demo-3-enable-heap-dumps)
        - [Scenario](#scenario)
        - [Preparation](#preparation)
        - [Enable heap dumps for HDFS](#enable-heap-dumps-for-hdfs)
    - [Demo 4: Monitor resources with OMS](#demo-4-monitor-resources-with-oms)
        - [Scenario](#scenario)
        - [Preparation](#preparation)
        - [Create an OMS workspace](#create-an-oms-workspace)
        - [Add solutions to an OMS workspace](#add-solutions-to-an-oms-workspace)
        - [Connect a VM to OMS Log Analytics](#connect-a-vm-to-oms-log-analytics)
        - [View and analyze OMS data](#view-and-analyze-oms-data)

## Demo 1: Azure Storage Explorer

### Scenario

In this demonstration, you will see how to:
-	Open an SSH connection to the head node.
-	Download log files.
-	Use Power Query to view HDInsight log files.

### Preparation
Before starting the demonstration, you should create the following cluster:
1.	Ensure that the **MT17B-WS2016-NAT** and **20775A-LON-DEV** virtual machines are running, and then log on to **20775A-LON-DEV** as **Admin** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.
2.	On the **20775A-LON-DEV** virtual machine, on the Start menu, start to type Internet Explorer, and then click Internet Explorer.
3.	In the address bar, type **http://azure.microsoft.com**, click **Portal**, and then sign in using the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure Learning Pass subscription.
4.	In the Azure Portal, click **All resources**, and then verify that there are no existing HDInsight clusters in your subscription. 
5.	In the Azure Portal, in the left pane, click **+ New**.
6.	Click Data + Analytics, and then click **HDInsight**.
7.	In the **New HDInsight Cluster** blade, click **Custom (size, settings, apps)**, and then on the **Basics** blade, type the following details, and then click **Cluster type**:
    -	Cluster name: **\<your name\>\<date\>demo05cluster**
    -	Subscription: **\<your subscription\>**
8.	On the **Cluster configuration** blade, enter the following details, and then click **Select**:
    -	Cluster type: **Hadoop**
    -	Operating system: **Linux**
    -	Version: **(Leave at default)**
    -	Cluster tier: **STANDARD**
9.	On the **Basics** blade, enter the following details, and then click **Next**:
    -	Cluster login username: **hadmin**
    -	Cluster login password: **Pa55w.rd123**
    -	Secure Shell (SSH) username: **sshuser**
    -	Use same password as cluster login: **selected**
    -	Resource group (Create new): **demo05rg**
    -	Location: **Select your region**
10.	On the **Storage** blade, under **Select a Storage account**, click **Create new**.
11.	In the **Create a new Storage account** box, type **\<your name\>\<date\>demo05sa**; this name must be globally unique.
12.	In the **Default container** box, replace the suggested name with **\<the name of your cluster\>-ctr** (for example, **\<your name\>\<date\>demo05cluster-ctr**).
13.	Leave all other settings at their defaults, and then click **Next**.
14.	On the **Applications** blade, click **Next**.
15.	On the **Cluster size** blade, in the **Number of Worker nodes** box, type **2**.
16.	Click **Worker node size**.
17.	On the **Choose your node size** blade, click **View all**, click **A4 General Purpos**e, and then click **Select**.
18.	Click **Head node size**.
19.	On the **Choose your node size** blade, click **View all**, click **A3 General Purpose**, and then click **Select**.
20.	On the **Cluster size** blade, click **Next**.
21.	On the **Advanced settings** blade, click **Next**.
22.	On the **Cluster summary** blade, click **Create**.
23.	Wait for the cluster to be provisioned, and the status to show as **Running**.

### Open an SSH connection to the head node

1.	In the Azure Portal, in the **Properties** pane for the **HDInsight Cluster** blade for your HDInsight cluster, click **Secure Shell (SSH)**. 
2.	On the **Secure Shell** blade, under **Windows users**, copy the host name **\<clustername\>-ssh.azurehdinsight.net** to the clipboard.
3.	If the **Internet Explorer** dialog box appears, click **Allow access**.
4.	Open a Command Prompt.
5.	At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:
    ```dos
    putty
    ```
6.	In the **PuTTY Configuration** dialog box, on the **Session** page, in the **Host Name (or IP address)** box, paste the host name from step 2. 
7.	Under **Connection type**, click **SSH**, and then click **Open**. 
8.	If a **PuTTY Security Alert** dialog box appears, click **Yes**.
9.	In the PuTTY console, type **sshuser**, and then press Enter.
10.	At the command prompt, type **Pa55w.rd123**, and then press Enter.

### Download log files

1.	Using **File Explorer**, navigate to **E:\Demofiles\Mod05**, and then double-click **LogDirs.cmd**.
2.	Switch to the Command Prompt.
3.	At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter (replacing <clustername>, with the name of your cluster):
    ```dos
    pscp -pw Pa55w.rd123 -r sshuser@<clustername>-ssh.azurehdinsight.net:/var/log/syslog e:/Logfiles/syslog/
    ```
    Note that all of the command can be copied from **E:\Demofiles\Mod05\Demo1Cmds.txt**. 
    Also note that, if you see an “Assertion failed” error for any of the **pscp** commands, wait a minute, and then try the command again.
4.	In File Explorer, navigate to **E:\Logfiles\syslog**, and verify that there is a log file in the folder.

### Use Power Query to view HDInsight log files

1.	Click **Start**, type **Excel**, and then click **Excel 2016**.
2.	On the Welcome page, click **Blank workbook**.
3.	On the **Data** ribbon, click **New Query**, point to **From File**, and then click **From Text**.
4.	In the **Import Data** dialog box, navigate to **E:\Logfiles\syslog**, select **All Files (*.*)**, click **syslog**, and then click **Import**.
5.	In the **syslog - Query Editor**, select **Column5**, click **Split Column**, and then click **By Delimiter**.
6.	In the **Split by Delimiter** dialog box, in the **Select or enter delimiter** list, click **Colon**, and then click **OK**.
7.	On the toolbar, click **Close & Load**.
8.	The query will now import data into Excel.
9.	Note that column 5 now contains the component or service name that is reporting an event into the syslog.
10.	Close Microsoft Excel without saving your changes.

## Demo 2: Viewing YARN logs

### Scenario

In this demonstration, you will see how to:
- View YARN logs using the YARN CLI.
- View YARN logs using the Resource Manager UI.

### Preparation

This demonstration uses the cluster from the previous demonstration.

### View YARN logs using the YARN CLI

1.	All of the following commands can be copied from: **E:\Demofiles\Mod05\Demo2Cmds.txt**.
2.	In the PuTTY console, type the following YARN command to run the MapReduce WordCount example job, and then press Enter:
    ```dos
    yarn jar /usr/hdp/current/hadoop-mapreduce-client/hadoop-mapreduce-examples.jar wordcount /example/data/gutenberg/davinci.txt /example/data/davinciwordcount
    ```
3.	When the MapReduce job has finished, in the PuTTY console, type the following command, and then press Enter:
    ```dos
    yarn application -list -appStates FINISHED
    ```
4.	If the results of this command show the **Total number of applications** as **0**, repeat the command until at least one application is reported.
5.	When the **Total number of applications** reports one or more applications, use the mouse to copy the application ID from the console display to the clipboard; this ID will be of the form: _application_1496062917453_0003_. 
6.	In the PuTTY console, type the following command, and then press Enter (replacing \<applicationId\> with your copied ID):
    ```dos
    yarn logs -applicationId <applicationId> > wordcount.log
    ```
7.	Switch to the Command Prompt.
8.	At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter (replacing \<clustername\>, with the name of your cluster):
    ```dos
    pscp -pw Pa55w.rd123 sshuser@\<clustername\>-ssh.azurehdinsight.net:/home/sshuser/wordcount.log e:/Logfiles/yarn/
    ```
9.	In File Explorer, navigate to **E:\Logfiles\yarn**, and point out that the **wordcount.log** file has been downloaded from the cluster head node to the local computer.

### View YARN logs using the Resource Manager UI

1.	In Internet Explorer, on the HDInsight cluster blade for your HDInsight cluster, in the top pane, click **Dashboard**. 
2.	If the **Windows Security** dialog box appears, in the **User name** box, type **hadmin**, in the **Password** box, type **Pa55w.rd123**, and then click **OK** to log into Ambari.
3.	In the Ambari dashboard, in the left menu, click **YARN**.
4.	On the main page, in the **Quick Links** list, point to the node that is marked as (Active), and then click **ResourceManager logs**.
5.	On the new browser tab, click **hadoop-mapreduce.jobsummary.log**.
6.	View the log information (you might need to scroll right to see it all).
7.	Click the browser **Back** button.
8.	Click **yarn-yarn-resourcemanager-hn …log**.
9.	View the log information (you might need to scroll down and right to see it all); note that this is a very detailed log.
10.	Close this browser tab.
11.	On the main Ambari page, in the **Quick Links** list, point to the node that is marked as (Active), and then click, **ResourceManager UI**.
12.	Click the link for your **\<applicationId\>** to view the same log as in the previous step.
13.	Click the browser **Back** button.
14.	Close this browser tab.
15.	Leave the Ambari console running, ready for the next demonstration.

## Demo 3: Enable heap dumps

### Scenario

In this demonstration, you will see how to:
-	Enable heap dumps for HDFS.

### Preparation

This demonstration uses the cluster created in the first demonstration.

### Enable heap dumps for HDFS

1.	In the Ambari console, in the left-hand menu, click **HDFS**.
2.	On the **Configs** tab, in the **Filter** box, type **opts**, and then press Enter, to view the configurations containing this text.
3.	Scroll through the hadoop-env template, and locate the following code:
    ```
    HADOOP_NAMENODE_OPTS="-server
    ```
4.	Press Enter after this code, to create a new line, type the following, and then click **Save**:
    ```
    -XX:+HeapDumpOnOutOfMemoryError -XX:HeapDumpPath=/tmp/
    ```
5.	In the **Save Configuration** dialog box, click **Save**.
6.	In the **Configurations** dialog box, click **Proceed Anyway**.
7.	In the **Save Configuration Changes** dialog box, click **OK**.
8.	In the **Service Actions** list, click **Turn On Maintenance Mode**.
9.	Point out that maintenance mode prevents a service from generating alerts when it is restarted.
10.	In the **Confirmation** dialog box, click **OK**.
11.	In the **Information** dialog box, click **OK**.
12.	In the **Service Actions** list, click **Restart All**. 
13.	In the **Confirmation dialog** box, click Confirm **Restart All**.
14.	In the **1 Background Operation Running** dialog box, wait until all operations have completed, and then click **OK**.
15.	In the **Service Actions** list, click **Turn Off Maintenance Mode**.
16.	In the **Confirmation** dialog box, click **OK**.
17.	In the **Information** dialog box, click **OK**.
18.	Point out that this node in the cluster will now generate heap dumps if there are out of memory errors.

## Demo 4: Monitor resources with OMS

### Scenario

In this demonstration, you will see how to:
-	Create an OMS workspace.
-	Add solutions to an OMS workspace.
-	Connect a VM to OMS Log Analytics.
-	View and analyze OMS data.

### Preparation

Before starting this demonstration, you should create the following Azure VM:
1.	In the Azure Portal, in the left pane, click **+ New**.
2.	Click **Compute**, click **See all**, click **Ubuntu Server 14.04 LTS**, and then click **Create**.
3.	On the **Basics** blade, enter the following details, and then click **OK**:
    -	Name: **omslinux01**
    -	VM disk type: **HDD**
    -	User name: **vadmin**
    -	Authentication type: **Password**
    -	Password: **Pa55w.rdPa55w.rd**
    -	Confirm password: **Pa55w.rdPa55w.rd**
    -	Subscription: **Your subscription**
    -	Resource group (Create new): **mod05omsrg2**
    -	Location: **Select your region**
4.	On the **Size** blade, click **View all**, click **A1 Basic**, and then click **Select**.
5.	On the **Settings** blade, under **Use managed disks**, click **Yes**, leave all other information at the defaults, and then click **OK**.
6.	On the **Summary** blade, click **OK**.
7.	Wait for the deployment to complete before starting the demonstration.

### Create an OMS workspace

1.	In the Azure Portal, in the left pane, click **+ New**.
2.	Click **Monitoring + Management**, and then click **Log Analytics**.
3.	On the **OMS Workspace** blade, enter the following details, and then click **OK**:
    -	OMS Workspace: **\<your name\>\<date\>demo05oms**
    -	Subscription: **Your subscription**
    -	Resource group (Create new): **demo05omsrg1**
    -	Location: **Select your region**
    -	Pricing tier: **Free**
4.	Wait until the deployment has succeeded before continuing the demonstration.

### Add solutions to an OMS workspace

1.	In the Azure Portal, in the left pane, click **+ New**.
2.	Click **Monitoring + Management**, click **See all**, click **Security & Compliance**, and then click **Create**.
3.	On the **Security & Compliance** blade, select your OMS workspace, ensure that the **Antimalware Assessment** and **Security and Audit** solutions are selected, and then click **Create**.
4.	After the deployment has succeeded, in the Azure Portal, click **All resources**, and then click your OMS workspace.
5.	Click **Overview**, and verify that the management solutions have been added to your OMS workspace.

### Connect a VM to OMS Log Analytics

1.	In the Azure Portal, click **All resources**, and then select your OMS workspace.
2.	On the Log Analytics blade, under **WORKSPACE DATA SOURCES**, click **Virtual machines**.
3.	 In the virtual machines list, click **omslinux01**.
4.	On the **omslinux01** blade, click **Connect**, to install the OMS agent and configure it for your OMS workspace. 
5.	Wait for the installation to complete, and then verify that the OMS connection status has been updated to **This workspace**.

### View and analyze OMS data

1.	On the **omslinux01** blade, under **WORKSPACE NAME**, click your OMS workspace.
2.	On the Log Analytics blade, under **GENERAL**, click **Overview**.
3.	Wait until data is displayed in the **Security and Audit** summary tile; you might need to click **Refresh** (the **Antimalware Assessment** solution might take several hours to complete an initial assessment).
4.	Click **Security and Audit**, and review the data items presented on the dashboard.
5.	Close Internet Explorer.

>**Note:** This is the final demonstration in this module. Make sure you delete the cluster, VM, and OMS resources before you start the next module.

---

©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.