# Module 6: Implementing Batch Solutions

- [Module 6: Implementing Batch Solutions](#module-6-implementing-batch-solutions)
    - [Demo 1: Using templates in Azure](#demo-1-using-templates-in-azure)
        - [Scenario](#scenario)
        - [Preparation](#preparation)
        - [Create a Linux-based HDInsight cluster](#create-a-linux-based-hdinsight-cluster)

## Demo 1: Using templates in Azure

### Scenario

In this demonstration, you will see how to:
-  Create a Linux-based HDInsight cluster and a SQL Database using a JSON template.

### Preparation

1.  Ensure that the **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, **20775A-LON-DEV** virtual machines are running, and then log on to **20775A-LON-DEV** as **Admin** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.
2.  Open **E:\Demofiles\Mod06\template.json** in Notepad.
3.  Replace all occurrences of **storage_account** with **\<your name\>\<date\>demo06sa** (This value must be globally unique, so if necessary append a number)
4.  Save the JSON file.
5.  Leave Notepad open.

### Create a Linux-based HDInsight cluster

1.  On the **20775A-LON-DEV** virtual machine, open Internet Explorer.
2.  In the address bar, type **http://azure.microsoft.com**, click **Portal**, and then sign in using the Microsoft account that is associated with your Microsoft Learning Azure Pass subscription.
3.  In the Azure Portal, click the hamburger menu, click **All services**, and then click **Templates**.
4.  On the **Templates** blade, click **+ Add**.
5.  In the **Name** box, type **HDInsight_cluster**.
6.  In the **Description** box, type **HDInsight cluster deployment**, and then click **OK**.
7.  On the **ARM template** blade, select all the code, and then press Delete.
8.  Switch to Notepad, select all the code, and then press Ctrl+C.
9.  Switch to the Azure Portal.
10. On the **ARM template** blade, paste the code from the clipboard.
Point out where the template parameters are defined.
11. On the **ARM template** blade, click **OK**.
12. On the **Add template** blade, Click **Add**.
13. On the **Templates** blade, click **Refresh**, and then click **hdinsight_cluster**.
14. On the **hdinsight_cluster** blade, click **Deploy**.
15. On the **Custom deployment** blade, enter the following information, and then click **Purchase**:
    -  **Subscription**: your subscription
    -  **Resource group (Create new)**: demo06rg
    -  **Location**: your region
    -  **Cluster Name**: \<*your name\>\<date*\>demo06cluster (This must be unique, so if necessary append a number)
    -  **Cluster Login User Name**: linuxadmin
    -  **Cluster Login Password**: Pa55w.rd123
    -  **Cluster Version**: 3.6
    -  **Cluster Worker Node Count**: 1
    -  **Cluster Kind**: HADOOP
    -  **Ssh User Name**: sshuser
    -  **Ssh Password**: Pa55w.rd123
    -  Select the **I agree to the terms and conditions stated above** check box.
16. Azure will then provision the Linux HDInsight cluster. This will take between 5 – 10 minutes.
17. Delete the HDInsight cluster and storage account, by deleting the associated resource group.

---

©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
