# Module 11: Implementing Streaming Solutions with Kafka and HBase

## Demo 1: Creating, configuring, and mirroring a Kafka cluster on HDInsight 

### Scenario

In this demonstration, you will see how to:

- Create an HDInsight cluster that includes Kafka
- Configure a Kafka cluster using Ambari
- Use MirrorMaker to mirror a cluster
- Monitor mirroring activity

>**Note**: This demonstration builds an HDInsight Storm cluster (which includes Kafka), and then uses Ambari to reconfigure the Kafka cluster. If you need to add Kafka to a basic Hadoop or Spark cluster, you can download and install it manually—performing configuration without using Ambari is a non-trivial task.
>
>Additionally, Microsoft will publish a Kafka cluster template for HDInsight but, at the time of writing, this template was not publicly available.

### Preperation

Additionally, this module uses Scala code to demonstrate the various APIs of Kafka and HBase. Before starting this module, ensure that you have installed and configured IntelliJ IDEA and the Java SDK on the LON-DEV virtual machine, as follows:

1.  Ensure that the **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, and **20775A-LON-DEV** virtual machines are running, and then log on to **20775A-LON-DEV** as **Admin** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.
2.  In File Explorer, navigate to **E:\\Demofiles\\Mod11**, right-click **Kafka.zip**, and then click **Extract All**.
3.  In the **Extract Compressed (Zipped) Folder** dialog box, clear the **Show extracted files when complete** check box, and then click **Extract**.
4.  Start Internet Explorer, and browse to **https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/download/index.html#section=windows**.
5.  Under **Community**, click **Download**.
6.  In the message box, click **Run**.
7.  In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.
8.  In the **IntelliJ IDEA Community Edition Setup** wizard, on the **Welcome to the IntelliJ IDEA Community Edition Setup** page, click **Next**.
9.  On the **Choose Install Location** page, click **Next**.
10. On the **Installation Options** page, select the **64-bit launcher** check box, and then click **Next**.
11. On the **Choose Start Menu Folder** page, click **Install**.
12. On the **Completing IntelliJ IDEA Community Edition Setup** page, click **Finish**.
13. In Internet Explorer, browse to **https://www.scala-lang.org/download/**.
14. Under **Other resources**, click **scala-2.12.7.msi**.
15. In the message box, click **Run**.
16. In the **Scala Programming Language Distribution Setup** dialog box, on the welcome page, click **Next**.
17. On the **End-User License Agreement** page, click **I accept the terms in the License Agreement**, and then click **Next**.
18. On the **Custom Setup** page, click **Next**.
19. On the **Ready to install Scala Programming Language Distribution** page, click **Install**.
20. In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.
21. On the **Completed the Scala Programming Language Distribution Setup Wizard** page, click **Finish**.
22. Close Internet Explorer.
23. On the desktop, double-click **IntelliJ IDEA Community Edition**.
24. In the **Complete Installation** dialog box, click **Do not import settings**, and then click **OK**.
25. In the **JetBrains Privacy Policy** dialog box, scroll to the end of the text, and then click **Accept**.
26. In the **Data Sharing** dialog box, click **Don't send**.
27. In the **Customize IntelliJ IDEA** wizard, on the **Set UI theme** page, click **Next: Default plugins**.
28. On the **Tune IDEA to your tasks** page, click **Next: Featured plugins**.
29. On the **Download featured plugins** page, in the **Scala** section, click **Install**, and then click **Start using IntelliJ IDEA**.
30. In the **Welcome to IntelliJ IDEA** dialog box, click **Create New Project**.
31. In the left-hand pane, click **Scala**, in the right-hand pane click **IDEA**, and then click **Next**.
32. Under the **JDK** drop-down list box, click **Download JDK**. This action will open a web browser (Microsoft Edge or Internet Explorer).
33. In the **Oracle** dialog box, click **AGREE AND PROCEED**.
34. In the web browser, in the **Java SE Downloads** section, click the **Java Download** image button.
35. In the **Java SE Development Kit** section, click **Accept License Agreement**, and then click the download link for the **Windows x64 EXE** version of the software.
36. In the web browser message box, click **Save**.
37. When the download has completed, in the web browser message box, click **Run**.
38. In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.
39. In the **Java SE Development Kit Setup** wizard, on the welcome page, click **Next**.
40. On the optional features page, click **Next**.
41. When the installation has finished, click **Close**.
42. Close the web browser and return to the **New Project** dialog box in IntelliJ IDEA.
43. In the **New Project** dialog box, next to the **JDK** drop-down list box, click **New**.
44. In the **Select Home Directory for JDK** dialog box, browse to **C:\\Program Files\\Java**, click **jdk-11.0.1**, and then click **OK**.
45. In the **New Project** dialog box, next to the **Scala SDK** drop-down list box, click **Create**.
46. In the **Select JAR's for the new Scala SDK** dialog box, click **OK**.
47. In the **New Project** dialog box, click **Finish**.
48. In the **Windows Security Alert** dialog box for the **OpenJDK Platform binary**, click **Allow access**.
49. In the **Windows Security Alert** dialog box for **IntelliJ IDEA**, click **Allow access**.
50. In the **Tip of the Day** dialog box, clear **Show tips on startup**, and then click **Close**.
51. On the **File** menu, click **Settings**.
52. In the **Settings** dialog box, click **Plugins**.
53. In the **Plugins** pane, clear **Android Support**, and then click **Browse repositories**.
54. In the **Browse Repositories** dialog box, in the search box, type **Azure**.
55. Click **Azure Toolkit for IntelliJ**, and then click **Install**.
56. In the **Third-party Plugins Privacy Note** dialog box, click **Accept**.
57. In the **Browse Repositories** dialog box, click **Close**.
58. In the **Settings** dialog box, click **OK**.
59. In the **IDE and Plugin Updates** dialog box, click **Postpone**.
60. Close IntelliJ IDEA.
61. In the **Confirm Exit** dialog box, click **Exit**.

### Create an HDInsight cluster that includes Kafka

1.  Ensure that the **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, and **20775A-LON-DEV** virtual machines are running, and then log on to **20775A-LON-DEV** as **Admin** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.
2.  On the **20775A-LON-DEV** virtual machine, start Internet Explorer®.
3.  In the address bar, type **http://portal.azure.com** and sign in using the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure Learning Pass subscription.
4.  Click **+ Create a resource**, in the search box, type **virtual network**, and then press Enter.
5.  On the **Everything** blade, click **Virtual network**, and then click **Create**.
6.  On the **Create virtual network** blade, specify the following values, and then click **Create**.
    -  **Name**: vnet\<*your initials\>\<ddmmyyyy*\> (where \<*ddmmyyyy*\> is the current date)
    -  **Address space**: 10.10.0.0/24 (allows 256 addresses)
    -  **Subscription**: Your subscription
    -  **Resource group (Create new)**: rgModule11
    -  **Location**: Accept the default value
    -  **Subnet**:
        -  **Name**: Accept the default value
        -  **Address range**: 10.10.0.0/25 (This is important, as it allows space for a VPN gateway subnet to be created later)
7.  Click **+ Create a resource**, in the search box, type **HDInsight**, and then press Enter.
8.  On the **Everything** blade, click **HDInsight**, and then click **Create**.
9.  On the **HDInsight** blade, click **Custom (size, settings, apps)**.
10. On the **Basics** blade, enter the following values, and then click **Next**:
    -  **Cluster name**: cluster\<*your initials\>\<ddmmyyyy*\> (where <*ddmmyyyy*> is the current date)
    -  **Subscription**: Your subscription
    -  **Cluster type**:
        -  **Cluster type**: Kafka
        -  **Operating system**: Linux
        -  **Version**: Storm 1.1.0 (HDI 3.6)
    -  **Cluster login name**: admin
    -  **Cluster login password**: Pa55w.rdPa55w.rd
    -  **Secure Shell (SSH) username**: sshuser
    -  **Use same password as cluster login**: selected
    -  **Resource group (Select existing)**: rgModule11
    -  **Location**: Set this to the same location as the location for the virtual network
11. On the **Security + networking** blade, in the **Virtual network** list, click **vnet\<*your initials\>\<ddmmyyyy*\>/rgModule11**.
12. In the **Subnet** list, ensure **default** is selected, and then click **Next**.
13. On the **Storage** blade, under **Select a Storage account**, click **Create new**.
14. In the **Create a new Storage account** box, enter **sa\<*your initials\>\<ddmmyyyy*\>**, and then click **Next**.
15. On the **Applications (optional)** blade, click **Next**.
16. On the **Cluster size** blade, set the **Number of Worker nodes** to **3**, and then click **Zookeeper node sizes**.
17. On the **Choose you node size** blade, click **View all**, click **A2 General Purpose**, and then click **Select**.
18. On the **Cluster size** blade, click **Next**.
19. On the **Script actions** blade, click **Next**.
20. On the **Cluster summary** blade, click **Create**.
21. While the cluster is being built, repeat steps 7-20 to create a second cluster named **mirror\<*your initials\>\<ddmmyyyy*\>** in the same resource group as the first cluster and the virtual network, and with a storage account of **samirror\<*your initials\>\<ddmmyyyy*\>**.
22. Wait for both clusters to be provisioned before proceeding with the demonstration. This may take 15–20 minutes.

### Configure a Kafka cluster using Ambari

1.  In the Azure Portal, click **All resources**, and then click **cluster\<*your initials\>\<ddmmyyyy*\>**.
2.  On the **cluster\<*your initials\>\<ddmmyyyy*\>** blade, in the **Cluster dashboards** section, click **Ambari home**.
3.  In the **Windows Security** dialog box, in the **User Name** box, type **admin**, in the **Password** box, type **Pa55w.rdPa55w.rd**, and then click **OK**.
4.  On the Ambari dashboard, in the left-hand pane, click **Kafka**. The dashboard for the Kafka cluster appears showing the three Kafka broker nodes.
5.  On the **Configs** tab, note the configuration for the Kafka cluster. You can use this pane to change any of the configuration parameters for the Kafka cluster except the broker host machines. If you need to add or remove brokers, you must stop the Kafka service, delete it, and recreate it. Note that the brokers are listening on port 9092 (as specified by the **listeners** configuration parameter).
6.  Make a note of the name of the first broker host machine (it will be a long name, ending with internal.cloudapp.net). For the rest of this demo insert this value whenever you see **\<source-kafka-broker\>**.
7.  Click the **Service Actions** drop-down list. You can stop, restart, and check a service (don't change anything at the moment).
8.  In the left-hand pane, click the **Actions** drop-down list. You can stop, restart, and download client configs (don't change anything).
9.  Repeat steps 1 to 8 above for the mirror cluster (**mirror\<*your initials\>\<ddmmyyyy*\>**), and make a note of the host name of the first computer in the mirror Kafka cluster. For the rest of this demo insert this value whenever you see **\<mirror-kafka-broker\>**.

### Use MirrorMaker to mirror a cluster

1.  Click Start, type **putty**, and then press Enter.
2.  In the **PuTTY Configuration** dialog box, in the **Host Name (or IP address)** box, type the following (replacing cluster\<*your initials\>\<ddmmyyyy*\> with the name of your cluster), and then click **Open**:
    ````
    sshuser@cluster<your initials><ddmmyyyy>-ssh.azurehdinsight.net
    ````
3.  In the **PuTTY Security Alert** message box, click **Yes**.
4.  In the PuTTY terminal window, log in as **sshuser** with the password **Pa55w.rdPa55w.rd**.

    >**Note**: The following commands can be copied from **E:\\Demofiles\\Mod11\\KafkaCmds.txt**.

5.  Run the following command to start a bash shell as the superuser:
    ````
    sudo bash
    ````
6.  Run the following command to move to the Kafka configuration directory:
    ````
    cd /usr/hdp/current/kafka-broker/config
    ````
7.  Run the following command to create a new file named **source-cluster.properties**:
    ````
    nano source-cluster.properties
    ````
8.  In the editor, add the following text. Replace **\<mirror-kafka-broker\>** with the host name of the first Kafka broker in the mirror cluster.
    ````
    bootstrap.servers=<mirror-kafka-broker>:9092
    ````
9.  Press Ctrl+O, press Enter to save the file, and then press Ctrl+X to close the editor.
10. Run the following command to create a new file named **dest-cluster.properties**:
    ````
    nano dest-cluster.properties
    ````
11. In the editor, add the following text. Replace **\<source-kafka-broker\>** with the host name of the first Kafka broker in the original cluster:
    ````
    bootstrap.servers=<source-kafka-broker>:9092
    group.id=mirror-group
    ````
12. Press Ctrl+O, press Enter to save the file, and then press Ctrl+X to close the editor.
13. Return to the web browser displaying Ambari for the source cluster.
14. On the **Kafka Configs** page, make a note of the first ZooKeeper server listed in the **zookeeper.connect** property (it should reference port 2181).
15. Return to the PuTTY terminal. 
16. Run the following command to move to the Kafka bin directory:
    ````
    cd /usr/hdp/current/kafka-broker/bin
    ````
17. Run the following command to create a topic named topic1 on the Kafka cluster. Replace **\<zookeeper\>** with the name of the ZooKeeper server you noted earlier:
    ````
    ./kafka-topics.sh --zookeeper <zookeeper>:2181 --create --topic topic1 --partitions 1 --replication-factor 1
    ````
18. Run the following command to run MirrorMaker using the configuration files that you created earlier. Messages appearing on topic1 will be mirrored. Note that this command runs MirrorMaker in the background; MirrorMaker must remain running all the time you want to mirror the cluster:
    ````
    ./kafka-mirror-maker.sh --producer.config ../conf/source-cluster.properties --consumer.config ../conf/dest-cluster.properties --whitelist=topic1 &
    ````
19. Start another instance of PuTTY.
20. In the **PuTTY Configuration** dialog box, in the **Host Name (or IP address)** box, type the following (replacing mirror\<*your initials\>\<ddmmyyyy*\> with the name of your mirror cluster), and then click **Open**:
    ````
    sshuser@mirror<your initials><ddmmyyyy>-ssh.azurehdinsight.net
    ````
21. In the **PuTTY Security Alert** message box, click **Yes**.
22. In the PuTTY terminal window, log in as **sshuser** with the password **Pa55w.rdPa55w.rd**.
23. Arrange the two PuTTY instances side by side, so that the second instance (the mirror) is on the right.
24. Run the following command to start a bash shell as the superuser:
    ````
    sudo bash
    ````
25. Run the following command to move to the Kafka bin directory:
    ````
    cd /usr/hdp/current/kafka-broker/bin
    ````
26. Run the following command. Replace **\<source-kafka-broker\>** with the host name of the first Kafka broker in the mirror cluster. This command runs a test consumer application that listens for messages appearing on topic1 in the mirror cluster:
    ````
    ./kafka-console-consumer.sh --bootstrap-server <source-kafka-broker>:9092 --whitelist topic1 --from-beginning
    ````
27. Switch to the PuTTY terminal window connected to the Kafka broker being mirrored. This is the first PuTTY window on the left.
28. Run the following command (there is no prompt). Replace **\<source-kafka-broker\>** with the host name of the first Kafka broker in the cluster. This command runs a test producer application that connects to the Kafka broker:
    ````
    ./kafka-console-producer.sh --broker-list <source-kafka-broker>:9092 --topic topic1
    ````
29. Type the following text at the **\>** prompt:
    ````
    Hello
    World
    Hello
    Kafka
    ````
30. Verify that these messages appear in the Kafka consumer application running in the other PuTTY terminal window. If the system is configured correctly, the messages are being transmitted from the original Kafka cluster to the mirror cluster, and the consumer is reading them from the mirror cluster. This can take a few minutes to process, and some warning messages may appear, which can be ignored.

### Monitor mirroring activity

1.  Return to the web browser displaying the Ambari page for the source cluster.
2.  In the left-hand pane, click **Kafka**.
3.  On the **Summary** tab, in the **Metrics** pane, note the activity reported in the **Broker Topics** graph.
4.  Switch to the Ambari page for the mirror cluster, and click **Kafka**.
5.  On the **Summary** tab, in the **Metrics** pane, note the activity reported in the **Broker Topics** graph. This activity is caused by the mirroring of messages to this cluster.
6.  Close the two Ambari tabs.
7.  Close the two PuTTY windows.

>**Note**: At the end of this demonstration, delete the mirror cluster to save costs, as follows:
> 1.  In the Azure Portal, click **All resources**, and then click **mirror\<*your initials\>\<ddmmyyyy*\>cluster**.
> 2.  Click **Delete**.
> 3.  In the message box, type **mirror\<*your initials\>\<ddmmyyyy*\>cluster**, and then click **Delete**.
> 4.  Leave the first cluster running.

## Demo 2: Configuring remote access to a Kafka cluster

### Scenario

This demonstration starts the process of configuring remote access to a Kafka cluster. This process takes around 45 minutes to complete.

### Preparation

Before you can perform the demonstration, run the **E:\\Demofiles\\Mod11\\Setup.cmd** file as an Administrator.

### Configure remote access to a Kafka cluster – Part 1

1.  In the Azure Portal, click **+ Create a resource**, in the search box, type **public**, and then press Enter.
2.  On the **Everything** blade, click **Public IP address**, and click **Create**.
3.  On the **Create public IP address** blade, enter the following values, and then click **Create**:
    -  **Name**: pip\<*your initials\>\<ddmmyyyy*\> (where \<*ddmmyyyy*\> is the current date)
    -  **DNS name label**: pip\<*your initials\>\<ddmmyyyy*\> (where \<*ddmmyyyy*\> is the current date. Also, this name must be regionally unique so, if necessary, append a letter or number)
    -  **Subscription**: Your subscription
    -  **Resource group (Use existing)**: rgModule11
    -  **Location**: Select your region
4.  Click **Start**, type **powershell**, and then click **Windows PowerShell ISE**.
5.  In Windows PowerShell ISE, on the **File** menu, click **Open**.
6.  In the **Open** dialog box, navigate to **E:\\Demofiles\\Mod11**, click **createRootCert.ps1**, and then click **Open**.
7.  On the toolbar, click **Run Script**.
8.  On the **File** menu, click **Open**.
9.  In the **Open** dialog box, navigate to **E:\\Demofiles\\Mod11**, click **createClientCert.ps1**, and then click **Open**.
10. On the toolbar, click **Run Script**.
11. Click **Start**, type **certificates**, and then click **Manage user certificates**.
12. In Certificate Manager, expand **Personal**, and then click **Certificates**.
13. In the certificates list, right-click **P2SRootCert**, and then click **Cut**.
14. Expand **Trusted Root Certification Authorities**, right-click **Certificates**, and then click **Paste**.
15. In the **Security Warning** dialog box, click **Yes**.
16. Under **Trusted Root Certification Authorities**, click **Certificates**
17. In the certificates list, right-click **P2SRootCert**, point to **All Tasks**, and then click **Export**.
18. In the **Certificate Export Wizard**, on the **Welcome to the Certificate Export Wizard** page, click **Next**.
19. On the **Export Private Key** page, click **Next**.
20. On the **Export File Format** page, click **Base-64 encoded X.509 (.CER)**, and then click **Next**.
21. On the **File to Export** page, click **Browse**.
22. In the **Save As** dialog box, navigate to **E:\\Demofiles\\Mod11**, in the **File name** box, type **P2SRootCert**, and then click **Save**.
23. On the **File to Export** page, click **Next**.
24. On the **Completing the Certificate Export Wizard** page, click **Finish**.
25. In the **Certificate Export Wizard** dialog box, click **OK**.
26. Close Certificate Manager.
27. Click **Start**, type **notepad**, and then click **Notepad**.
28. On the **File** menu, click **Open**.
29. In the **Open** dialog box, navigate to **E:\\Demofiles\\Mod11**, select **All Files (\*.\*)**, click **P2SRootCert.cer**, and then click **Open**.
30. In Notepad, delete the following line:
    ````
    -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
    ````
31. In Notepad, delete the following line:
    ````
    -----END CERTIFICATE-----
    ````
32. On the **File** menu, click **Save As**.
33. In the **Save As** dialog box, in the **File name** box, type **P2SRootCert-edited**, and then click **Save**.
34. Close Notepad.
35. In Windows PowerShell ISE, on the **File** menu, click **Open**.
36. In the **Open** dialog box, navigate to **E:\\Demofiles\\Mod11**, click **cleanCertificate.ps1**, and then click **Open**.
37. On the toolbar, click **Run Script**.
38. In the **Open** dialog box, navigate to **E:\\Demofiles\\Mod11**, click **P2SRootCert-edited.txt**, and then click **Open**.
39. Click **Start**, type **notepad**, and then click **Notepad**.
40. On the **File** menu, click **Open**.
41. In the **Open** dialog box, navigate to **E:\\Demofiles\\Mod11**, then click **P2SRootCert-edited.txt**, and then click **Open**.
42. In Notepad, verify that the certificate data is now one single text string; keep Notepad open.
43. In the Azure Portal, click **+ Create a resource**, in the search box, type **gateway**, and then press Enter.
44. On the **Everything** blade, click **Virtual network gateway**, and then click **Create**.
45. On the **Create virtual network gateway** blade, enter the following values, and then click **Choose a virtual network**:
    -  **Name**: gwy\<*your initials\>\<ddmmyyyy*\> (where \<*ddmmyyyy*\> is the current date)
    -  **SKU**: VpnGw1
46. On the **Choose virtual network** blade, click **vnet\<*your initials\>\<ddmmyyyy*\>**.
47. On the **Create virtual network gateway** blade, under **Public IP address**, click **Use existing**, and then click **pip\<*your initials\>\<ddmmyyyy*\>**.
48. Set the **Location** to your region, and then click **Create**.

>**Note**: The gateway deployment may take up to 45 minutes to complete; do not start the next part of the demo until the gateway is ready.

>**Note**: Explain that, in order to access Kafka nodes directly, you need to use a Point-to-Site VPN, and this requires deployment of the Azure Virtual network gateway. The gateway can take up to 45 minutes to deploy, so the demonstration has been split into two parts. Explain to students that you are initiating gateway deployment now, and will complete this process in the second part of the demo at the end of this lesson.

## Demo 3: Visualizing data with Kafka clusters and Power BI

### Scenario

Having connected to a Kafka cluster, this third demonstration shows an end-to-end example of producing, processing, and visualizing events using a Kafka cluster and Power BI.

In this demonstration, you will see how to:
-  Complete the process of configuring remote access to a Kafka cluster.
-  Send event data to a Kafka cluster.
-  Perform stream processing.
-  Visualize event data.

### Preparation

You cannot use outlook.com credentials with Power BI; you need an “enterprise” email address. If you do not have a Power BI login, go to **https://Power BI.microsoft.com/en-us/documentation/Power BI-admin-signing-up-for-power-bi-with-a-new-office-365-trial**, and then follow the steps to create an account. This option gives you a sign-in of the form: user@something.onmicrosoft.com

### Configure additional Kafka topics

1.  In the Azure Portal, click **All resources**, and then click **cluster\<*your initials\>\<ddmmyyyy*\>**.
2.  On the **cluster\<*your initials\>\<ddmmyyyy*\>** blade, in the **Cluster dashboards** section, click **Ambari home**.
3.  If the **Windows Security** dialog box appears, in the **User Name** box, type **admin**, in the **Password** box, type **Pa55w.rdPa55w.rd**, and then click **OK**.
4.  On the Ambari dashboard, in the left-hand pane, click **Kafka**, and then click the **Configs** tab.
5.  On the **Kafka Configs** page, make a note of the first ZooKeeper server listed in the **zookeeper.connect** property (it should reference port 2181).
6.  Start **PuTTY**.
7.  In the **PuTTY Configuration** dialog box, in the **Host Name (or IP address)** box, type the following (replacing **cluster\<*your initials\>\<ddmmyyyy*\>** with the name of your mirror cluster), and then click **Open**:
    ````
    sshuser@cluster<your initials><ddmmyyyy>-ssh.azurehdinsight.net
    ````
8.  In the PuTTY terminal window, log in as **sshuser** with the password **Pa55w.rdPa55w.rd**.
9.  Run the following command to start a bash shell as the superuser:
    ````
    sudo bash
    ````
10. Run the following command to move to the Kafka bin directory:
    ````
    cd /usr/hdp/current/kafka-broker/bin
    ````
11. Run the following command to create a topic named stocks on the Kafka cluster (replacing **\<zookeeper\>** with the name of the ZooKeeper server you noted earlier):
    ````
    ./kafka-topics.sh --zookeeper <zookeeper>:2181 --create --topic stocks --partitions 1 --replication-factor 1
    ````
12. Run the following command to create another topic named prices on the Kafka cluster (replacing **\<zookeeper\>** with the name of the ZooKeeper server you noted earlier):
    ````
    ./kafka-topics.sh --zookeeper <zookeeper>:2181 --create --topic prices --partitions 1 --replication-factor 1
    ````

### Configure remote access to a Kafka cluster – Part 2

1.  In the Azure Portal, click **All resources**, and check that the Virtual network gateway has been deployed; if the deployment has not completed, wait before proceeding.
2.  In the Azure Portal, click **gwy\<*your initials\>\<ddmmyyyy*\>**.
3.  On the **gwy\<*your initials\>\<ddmmyyyy*\>** blade, under **Settings**, click **Point-to-site configuration**, and then click **Configure now**.
4.  On the **Point-to-site configuration** blade, in the **Address pool** box, type **172.16.201.0/24**.
5.  Under **Root certificates**, in the **NAME** box, type **P2SRootCert**.
6.  Switch to Notepad.
7.  On the **Edit** menu, click **Select All**.
8.  On the **Edit** menu, click **Copy**.
9.  Switch to Internet Explorer.
10. In the Azure Portal, on the **Point-to-site configuration** blade, under **Root certificates**, right-click in the **PUBLIC CERTIFICATE DATA** box, and then click **Paste**.
11. On the **Point-to-site configuration** blade, click **Save**.
12. When the update to the Virtual network gateway is complete, click **Download VPN client**.
13. In the message box, click **Open**.
14. In File Explorer, double-click **WindowsAmd64**, and then double-click **VpnClientSetupAmd64.exe**.
15. In the **Compressed (zipped) Folder** dialog box, click **Run**.16. 
16. In the **Windows protected your PC** dialog box, click **More info**, and then click **Run anyway**.
17. In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.
18. In the **vnet\<*your initials\>\<ddmmyyyy*\>** dialog box, click **Yes**.
19. On the taskbar, click **Internet access**, and then click **vnet\<*your initials\>\<ddmmyyyy*\>**.
20. On the **Settings** page, click **vnet\<*your initials\>\<ddmmyyyy*\>**, and then click **Connect**.
21. In the **vnet\<*your initials\>\<ddmmyyyy*\>** dialog box, click **Connect**.
22. In the **Connection Manager** dialog box, select the **Do not show this message again for this Connection** check box, and then click **Continue**.
23. On the **Settings** page, verify that the VPN status is now showing as **Connected**.

>**Note**: At the time of writing, there is a bug in the Microsoft VPN client; if you get an error “Verifying the password”, and then after a timeout “The connection was terminated because the remote computer did not respond in a timely manner. (Error 718)”, use the following workaround:
>
>1.  After installing the VPN package, go to **C:\\Users\\Admin\\AppData\\Roaming\\Microsoft\\Network\\Connections\\Cm\\\<yourconnectionid\>**.
>2.  Open **\<yourconnectionid\>.cms** in a text editor and add the value 13 to the following keys:
>      -  **CustomAuthKey2** (around line 133)
>      -  **CustomAuthKey** (around line 135)
>3.  These keys should then look like:
>      -  CustomAuthKey2=13 
>      -  CustomAuthKey=13
>4.  Save the edited cms file, and retry the VPN connection.

### Configure Kafka for IP advertising

1.  In Internet Explorer, on the Ambari tab, in the **Filter** box, type **kafka-env**.
2.  In the **kafka-env-template**, add the following text to the bottom, and then click **Save**:
    >**Note**: This can be copied from **E:\\Demofiles\\Mod11\\KafkaIPAdvertising.txt**.
    ````
    # Configure Kafka to advertise IP addresses instead of FQDN
    IP_ADDRESS=$(hostname -i)
    echo advertised.listeners=$IP_ADDRESS
    sed -i.bak -e '/advertised/{/advertised@/!d;}' /usr/hdp/current/kafka-broker/conf/server.properties
    echo "advertised.listeners=PLAINTEXT://$IP_ADDRESS:9092" >> /usr/hdp/current/kafka-broker/conf/server.properties
    ````
3.  In the **Save Configuration** dialog box, in the **Notes** box, type **Advertise Kafka IP**, and then click **Save**.
4.  In the **Save Configuration Changes** dialog box, click **OK**.
5.  In the **Filter** box, type **listeners**.
6.  In the **listeners** box, change the value to the following string, and then click **Save**:
    ````
    PLAINTEXT://0.0.0.0:9092
    ````
7.  In the **Save Configuration** dialog box, in the **Notes** box, type **Listen on all interfaces**, and then click **Save**.
8.  In the **Save Configuration Changes** dialog box, click **OK**.
9.  In the **Service Actions** drop-down list, click **Turn On Maintenance Mode**. 
10. In the **Confirmation** dialog box, click **OK**.
11. In the **Information** dialog box, click **OK**.
12. In the **Restart** drop-down list, click **Restart All Affected**. 
13. In the **Confirmation** dialog box, click **Confirm Restart All**.
14. In the **Background Operation Running** dialog box, wait for all the operations listed to complete, and then click **OK**.
15. In the **Service Actions** drop-down list, click **Turn Off Maintenance Mode**. 
16. In the **Confirmation** dialog box, click **OK**.
17. In the **Information** dialog box, click **OK**.
18. Switch to the PowerShell ISE.
19. In Windows PowerShell ISE, on the **File** menu, click **Open**.
20. In the **Open** dialog box, navigate to **E:\\Demofiles\\Mod11**, click **ShowNodeIPs.ps1**, and then click **Open**.
21. Replace **\<resource group\>** with the name of the resource group you created for your virtual network.
22. On the toolbar, click **Run Script**.
23. In the **Windows PowerShell ISE** dialog box, click **OK**. 
24. In the **Microsoft Azure** dialog box, sign in using the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure Learning Pass subscription.
25. Make a note of the three worker node IP addresses.

### Send event data to a Kafka cluster

1.  On the desktop, double-click **IntelliJ IDEA Community Edition**.
2.  On the **File** menu, click **Open**.
3.  In the **Open File or Project** dialog box, navigate to **E:\\Demofiles\\Mod11\\Kafka\\Streaming\\StockMarketEventProducer**, and then click **OK**.
4.  In the **Open Project** dialog box, click **This Window**.
5.  In the **Project** pane, expand **StockMarketEventProducer**, expand **src**, expand **eventproducer**, and then double-click **eventdriver**.
6.  Walk through the code in **eventdriver.scala**. Explain that it creates a series of dummy stock market items comprising a four-character ticker and initial price. The code connects to the Kafka topic and outputs an event message containing this data for each stock item, and then generates a new price, simulating changes in the values of the stocks. For each change, the code sends a new event message to the Kafka topic.
7.  On the **Run** menu, click **Edit Configurations**.
8.  On the **Configuration** tab, edit the **Program arguments**, so that bootstrap server IP addresses are the worker node IP addresses that you noted earlier, and then click **OK**.
9.  On the **Run** menu, click **Run 'Unnamed'**.
10. You should see messages being sent to the **stocks** topic.

### Perform stream processing

1.  In IntelliJ IDEA, on the **File** menu, click **Open**.
2.  In the **Open File or Project** dialog box, navigate to **E:\\Demofiles\\Mod11\\Kafka\\Streaming\\StockMarketStreamer**, and then click **OK**.
3.  In the **Open Project** message box, click **New Window**.
4.  In the **Project** pane, expand **StockMarketStreamer**, expand **src**, expand **eventstreamer**, and then double-click **streamdriver**.
5.  Walk through the code. Explain that it creates a Kakfa topology for streaming stock market price event data to a Kafka topic. Two processors (StockMarketPriceProcessor and StockMarketSourceProcessor) listen for messages on the topic, read them, and process them. The StockMarketSourceProcessor simply displays the data received (stock tickers and prices), and the StockMarketPriceProcessor sends the data to Power BI.

### Visualize event data

1.  In Internet Explorer, create a new tab, and go to **http://www.PowerBI.com**.
2.  Click **Sign in**, and sign in using your Power BI credentials.
3.  Close the **GetData** dialog box.
4.  In the left menu, click **My Workspace**, click **+ Create**, and click **Streaming dataset**.
5.  On the **New streaming dataset** blade, click **API**, and then click **Next**.
6.  On the **New streaming dataset** blade, enter the following details, and then click **Create**:
    -  **Dataset name**: Stock Market Tickers
    -  **Values from stream**: 
        -  **Ticker** of type **Text**
        -  **Movements** of type **Number**
        -  **AveragePrice** of type **Number**
7.  Copy the **Push URL** to Notepad, and then click **Done**.
8.  Click **+ Create**, and then click **Dashboard**.
9.  In the **Create dashboard** dialog box, in the **Dashboard name** box, type **Stock Market Tickers**, and then click **Create**.
10. Click **+ Add tile**.
11. In the **Add tile** blade, click **Custom Streaming Data**, and then click **Next**.
12. In the **Add a custom streaming data tile** blade, click **Stock Market Tickers**, and then click **Next**.
13. In the **Add a custom streaming data tile** blade, in the **Visualization Type** list, click **Card**.
14. In the **Fields** section, click **+ Add value**. 
15. In the **Fields** list, click **Movements**, and then click **Next**.
16. In the **Tile details** blade, in the **Title** box, type **Movements**, and then click **Apply**.
17. Click **+ Add tile**.
18. In the **Add tile** blade, click **Custom Streaming Data**, and then click **Next**.
19. In the **Add a custom streaming data tile** blade, click **Stock Market Tickers**, and then click **Next**.
20. In the **Add a custom streaming data tile** blade, in the **Visualization Type** list, click **Card**.
21. In the **Fields** section, click **+ Add value**. 
22. In the **Fields** list, click **AveragePrice**, and then click **Next**.
23. In the **Tile details** blade, in the **Title** box, type **Average Price**, and click **Apply**.
24. Switch to the second instance of IntelliJ IDEA.
25. On the **Run** menu, click **Edit Configurations**.
26. On the **Configuration** tab, edit the **Program arguments**, so that bootstrap server IP addresses are the worker node IP addresses that you noted earlier, and paste the URL for the Power BI endpoint, and then click **OK**.
27. On the **Run** menu, click **Run 'Unnamed'**.
28. Switch to the Power BI dashboard; after a few moments, you should see the **Movements** and **Average Price** tiles start to display live real-time data.
29. Close both instances of IntelliJ IDEA, terminating any processes.
30. Close PowerShell, and then close the PuTTY window.
31. In the **Settings** window, in the **vnet\<*your initials\>\<ddmmyyyy*\>** section, click **Disconnect**.
32. In Internet Explorer, close the PowerBI, and Ambari tabs.

>**Note**: At the end of this demonstration, delete the resource group because this will delete everything in that group to save costs, as follows:
>1.  In the Azure Portal, click **Resource groups**.
>2.  Right-click **rgModule11**, and then click **Delete resource group**.
>3.  Type **rgModule11**, and then click **Delete**.

---

©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
